<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>A Good Story Spoiled</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="a-good-story-spoiled" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Good Story Spoiled</h2>
			<p>Few nights ago in a rather tough saloon in a little town on the Central Railroad, a big, strapping desperado, who had an unenviable reputation as a bad man generally, walked up to the bar and in a loud voice ordered everybody in the saloon to walk up and take a drink. The crowd moved quickly to the bar at his invitation, as the man was half drunk and was undoubtedly dangerous when in that condition.</p>
			<p>One man alone failed to accept the invitation. He was a rather small man, neatly dressed, who sat calmly in his chair, gazing idly at the crowd. A student of physiognomy would have been attracted by the expression of his face, which was one of cool determination and force of will. His jaw was square and firm, and his eye gray and</p>
			<p>steady, with that peculiar gray glint in the iris that presages more danger than any other kind of optic.</p>
			<p>The bully looked around and saw that some one had declined his invitation.</p>
			<p>He repeated it in a louder voice.</p>
			<p>The small man rose to his feet and walked coolly toward the desperado.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me,” he said in a low but determined tone, “I’m a little deaf and didn’t hear you the first time. Gimme whisky straight.”</p>
			<p>And another story was spoiled for the papers.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
