<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>A Years Supply</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="a-years-supply" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Years Supply</h2>
			<p>He was one of the city’s wealthiest men, but he made no ostentatious display of his wealth. A little, thin, poorly clad girl stood looking in the window of the restaurant at the good things to eat. The man approached and touched her on the shoulder.</p>
			<p>“What is your name, little girl?” he asked. “Susie Tompkins, sir,” she answered, looking up at him with great, haunting, blue eyes.</p>
			<p>There was something in her pleading, innocent voice that stirred a strange feeling in the millionaire’s heart. Still it may have been indigestion. “Have you a father?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, sir, mother has only me to support.” “Is your mother very poor?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“What is your mother’s name?”</p>
			<p>“Susan, sir. Just like mine.”</p>
			<p>“Tell me, child,” said the wealthy man, clutching her arm in an agony of suspense. “Has your mother a wart on her nose, and does her breath smell of onions?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>The millionaire covered his face with his hands for a moment, and then said in a trembling voice:</p>
			<p>“Little one, your mother and I once knew each other. You have her voice, her hair, and her eyes. If it had not been for a misunderstanding⁠—perhaps⁠—but that is all past now.”</p>
			<p>The man unbuttoned his overcoat and took from his vest pocket a package.</p>
			<p>“Take this,” he said. “I have more than I want. It will last you and your mother a year.”</p>
			<p>The little girl took the package and ran home in glee.</p>
			<p>“Oh, see, mama!” she cried. “A gentleman gave me this. He said it would last us a whole year.”</p>
			<p>The pale woman unrolled the package with trembling hands.</p>
			<p>It was a nice new calendar.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
