<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>An Expensive Veracity</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="an-expensive-veracity" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Expensive Veracity</h2>
			<p>A Houston man who attended a great many of Sam Jones’s sermons was particularly impressed with his denunciation of prevaricators, and of lies of all kinds, white, variegated, and black.</p>
			<p>So strongly was he affected and in such fertile ground did the seed sown by the great evangelist fall, that the Houston man, who had been accustomed occasionally to evade the truth, determined one morning he would turn over a new leaf and tell the truth in all things, big and little. So he commenced the day by scomingj to speak even a word that did not follow the exact truth for a model.</p>
			<p>At breakfast, his wife said:</p>
			<p>“How are the biscuit, Henry?”</p>
			<p>“Rather heavy,” he answered, “and about half done.”</p>
			<p>His wife flounced out of the dining room and he ate breakfast with the children. Ordinarily Henry would have said, “They are very fine, my dear,” and all would have been well.</p>
			<p>As he went out the gate, his rich old aunt, with whom he had always been a favorite, drove up. She was curled, and stayed, and powdered to look as young as possible.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Henry,” she simpered. “How are Ella and the children? I would come in but I’m looking such a fright today I’m not fit to be seen.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Henry, “you do. It’s a good thing your horse has a blind bridle on, for if he got a sight of you he’d run away and break your neck.”</p>
			<p>His aunt glared furiously at him and drove away without saying a word.</p>
			<p>Henry figured it up afterward and found that every word he said to her cost him $8,000.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
