<span class="xlarge"><b>THEROLLING STONE</b></span>is a weekly paper published in Austin, Texasevery Saturday and will endeavor to fill along-felt want that does not appear,by the way, to be altogether in-satiable at present.<b>THE IDEA IS</b>to fill its pages with matter that will make aheart-rending appeal to every lover ofgood literature, and every person whohas a taste for reading print;and a dollar and a half fora year's subscription.<b>OUR SPECIAL PREMIUM</b>For the next thirty days and from that timeon indefinitely, whoever will bring two dol-lars in cash to <i>The Rolling Stone</i> officewill be entered on the list of sub-scribers for one year and willhave returned to himon the spot<b>FIFTY CENTS IN CASH</b>
</td></tr>
</table>
<h5>The editor's own statement of his aims</h5>
</div>
<h2>INTRODUCTION</h2>
<p>This the twelfth and final volume of O. Henry's work gets its
title from an early newspaper venture of which he was the head and
front. On April 28, 1894, there appeared in Austin, Texas, volume
1, number 3, of <i>The Rolling Stone</i>, with a circulation greatly in
excess of that of the only two numbers that had gone before.
Apparently the business office was encouraged. The first two
issues of one thousand copies each had been bought up. Of the
third an edition of six thousand was published and distributed
<i>free</i>, so that the business men of Austin, Texas, might know what a
good medium was at hand for their advertising. The editor and
proprietor and illustrator of <i>The Rolling Stone</i> was Will Porter,
incidentally Paying and Receiving Teller in Major Brackenridge's
bank.</p>
<p>Perhaps the most characteristic feature of the paper was "The
Plunkville Patriot," a page each week—or at least with the
regularity of the somewhat uncertain paper itself—purporting to
be reprinted from a contemporary journal. The editor of the
Plunkville <i>Patriot</i> was Colonel Aristotle Jordan, unrelenting enemy
of his enemies. When the Colonel's application for the
postmastership in Plunkville is ignored, his columns carry a
bitter attack on the administration at Washington. With the public
weal at heart, the <i>Patriot</i> announces that "there is a dangerous
hole in the front steps of the Elite saloon." Here, too, appears
the delightful literary item that Mark Twain and Charles Egbert
Craddock are spending the summer together in their Adirondacks
camp. "Free," runs its advertising column, "a clergyman who cured
himself of fits will send one book containing 100 popular songs,
one repeating rifle, two decks easywinner cards and 1 liver pad
free of charge for $8. Address Sucker &amp; Chump, Augusta, Me." The
office moves nearly every week, probably in accordance with the
time-honored principle involving the comparative ease of moving
and paying rent. When the Colonel publishes his own candidacy for
mayor, he further declares that the <i>Patriot</i> will accept no
announcements for municipal offices until after "our" (the
editor's) canvass. Adams &amp; Co., grocers, order their $2.25 ad.
discontinued and find later in the <i>Patriot</i> this estimate of their
product: "No less than three children have been poisoned by eating
their canned vegetables, and J. O. Adams, the senior member of the
firm, was run out of Kansas City for adulterating codfish balls.
It pays to advertise." Here is the editorial in which the editor
first announces his campaign: "Our worthy mayor, Colonel Henry
Stutty, died this morning after an illness of about five minutes,
brought on by carrying a bouquet to Mrs. Eli Watts just as Eli got
in from a fishing trip. Ten minutes later we had dodgers out
announcing our candidacy for the office. We have lived in
Plunkville going on five years and have never been elected
anything yet. We understand the mayor business thoroughly and if
elected some people will wish wolves had stolen them from their
cradles…"</p>
<p>The page from the <i>Patriot</i> is presented with an array of perfectly
confused type, of artistic errors in setting up, and when an
occasional line gets shifted (intentionally, of course) the effect
is alarming. Anybody who knows the advertising of a small country
weekly can, as he reads, pick out, in the following, the
advertisement from the "personal."</p>
<div class="center">
<table border="0" cellpadding="20">
<tr><td>
Miss Hattie Green of Paris, Ill., isSteel-riveted seam or water powerautomatic oiling thoroughly testedvisiting her sister Mrs. G. W. GrubesLittle Giant Engines at Adams &amp; Co.Also Sachet powders Mc. Cormick Reapers andoysters.
</td></tr>
</table>
</div>
<p>All of this was a part of <i>The Rolling Stone</i>, which flourished, or
at least wavered, in Austin during the years 1894 and 1895. Years
before, Porter's strong instinct to write had been gratified in
letters. He wrote, in his twenties, long imaginative letters,
occasionally stuffed with execrable puns, but more than often
buoyant, truly humorous, keenly incisive into the unreal,
especially in fiction. I have included a number of these letters
to Doctor Beall of Greensboro, N. C., and to his early friend in
Texas, Mr. David Harrell.</p>
<p>In 1895-1896 Porter went to Houston, Texas, to work on the Houston
<i>Post</i>. There he "conducted" a column which he called "Postscripts."
Some of the contents of the pages that follow have been taken from
these old files in the fair hope that admirers of the matured O.
Henry will find in them pleasurable marks of the later genius.</p>
<p>Before the days of <i>The Rolling Stone</i> there are eleven years in
Texas over which, with the exception of the letters mentioned,
there are few "traces" of literary performance; but there are some
very interesting drawings, some of which are reproduced in this
volume. A story is back of them. They were the illustrations to a
book. "Joe" Dixon, prospector and inveterate fortune-seeker, came
to Austin from the Rockies in 1883, at the constant urging of his
old pal, Mr. John Maddox, "Joe," kept writing Mr. Maddox, "your
fortune's in your pen, not your pick. Come to Austin and write an
account of your adventures." It was hard to woo Dixon from the
gold that wasn't there, but finally Maddox wrote him he must come
and try the scheme. "There's a boy here from North Carolina,"
wrote Maddox. "His name is Will Porter and he can make the
pictures. He's all right." Dixon came. The plan was that, after
Author and Artist had done their work, Patron would step in, carry
the manuscript to New York, bestow it on a deserving publisher and
then return to await, with the other two, the avalanche of
royalties. This version of the story comes from Mr. Maddox. There
were forty pictures in all and they were very true to the life of
the Rockies in the seventies. Of course, the young artist had no
"technique"—no anything except what was native. But wait! As the
months went by Dixon worked hard, but he began to have doubts.
Perhaps the book was no good. Perhaps John would only lose his
money. He was a miner, not a writer, and he ought not to let John
go to any expense. The result of this line of thought was the
Colorado River for the manuscript and the high road for the
author. The pictures, fortunately, were saved. Most of them Porter
gave later to Mrs. Hagelstein of San Angelo, Texas. Mr. Maddox, by
the way, finding a note from Joe that "explained all," hastened to
the river and recovered a few scraps of the great book that had
lodged against a sandbar. But there was no putting them together
again.</p>
<p>So much for the title. It is a real O. Henry title. Contents of
this last volume are drawn not only from letters, old newspaper
files, and <i>The Rolling Stone</i>, but from magazines and unpublished
manuscripts. Of the short stories, several were written at the
very height of his powers and popularity and were lost,
inexplicably, but lost. Of the poems, there are a few whose
authorship might have been in doubt if the compiler of this
collection had not secured external evidence that made them
certainly the work of O. Henry. Without this very strong evidence,
they might have been rejected because they were not entirely the
kind of poems the readers of O. Henry would expect from him. Most
of them however, were found in his own indubitable manuscript or
over his own signature.</p>
<p>There is extant a mass of O. Henry correspondence that has not
been included in this collection. During the better part of a
decade in New York City he wrote constantly to editors, and in
many instances intimately. This is very important material, and
permission has been secured to use nearly all of it in a
biographical volume that will be issued within the next two or
three years. The letters in this volume have been chosen as an
"exihibit," as early specimens of his writing and for their
particularly characteristic turns of thought and phrase.
The collection is not "complete" in any historical sense.</p>
<p>1912.<span class="ind20">H.P.S.</span></p>
<h2>THE DREAM</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[This was the last work of O. Henry. The <i>Cosmopolitan
Magazine</i> had ordered it from him and, after his death, the
unfinished manuscript was found in his room, on his dusty desk.
The story as it here appears was published in the <i>Cosmopolitan</i>
for September, 1910.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>Murray dreamed a dream.</p>
<p>Both psychology and science grope when they would explain to us
the strange adventures of our immaterial selves when wandering in
the realm of "Death's twin brother, Sleep." This story will not
attempt to be illuminative; it is no more than a record of
Murray's dream. One of the most puzzling phases of that strange
waking sleep is that dreams which seem to cover months or even
years may take place within a few seconds or minutes.</p>
<p>Murray was waiting in his cell in the ward of the condemned. An
electric arc light in the ceiling of the corridor shone brightly
upon his table. On a sheet of white paper an ant crawled wildly
here and there as Murray blocked its way with an envelope. The
electrocution was set for eight o'clock in the evening. Murray
smiled at the antics of the wisest of insects.</p>
<p>There were seven other condemned men in the chamber. Since he had
been there Murray had seen three taken out to their fate; one gone
mad and fighting like a wolf caught in a trap; one, no less mad,
offering up a sanctimonious lip-service to Heaven; the third, a
weakling, collapsed and strapped to a board. He wondered with what
credit to himself his own heart, foot, and face would meet his
punishment; for this was his evening. He thought it must be nearly
eight o'clock.</p>
<p>Opposite his own in the two rows of cells was the cage of
Bonifacio, the Sicilian slayer of his betrothed and of two
officers who came to arrest him. With him Murray had played
checkers many a long hour, each calling his move to his unseen
opponent across the corridor.</p>
<p>Bonifacio's great booming voice with its indestructible singing
quality called out:</p>
<p>"Eh, Meestro Murray; how you feel—all-a right—yes?"</p>
<p>"All right, Bonifacio," said Murray steadily, as he allowed the
ant to crawl upon the envelope and then dumped it gently on the
stone floor.</p>
<p>"Dat's good-a, Meestro Murray. Men like us, we must-a die like-a
men. My time come nex'-a week. All-a right. Remember, Meestro
Murray, I beat-a you dat las' game of de check. Maybe we play
again some-a time. I don'-a know. Maybe we have to call-a de move
damn-a loud to play de check where dey goin' send us."</p>
<p>Bonifacio's hardened philosophy, followed closely by his
deafening, musical peal of laughter, warmed rather than chilled
Murray's numbed heart. Yet, Bonifacio had until next week to live.</p>
<p>The cell-dwellers heard the familiar, loud click of the steel
bolts as the door at the end of the corridor was opened. Three men
came to Murray's cell and unlocked it. Two were prison guards; the
other was "Len"—no; that was in the old days; now the Reverend
Leonard Winston, a friend and neighbor from their barefoot days.</p>
<p>"I got them to let me take the prison chaplain's place," he said,
as he gave Murray's hand one short, strong grip. In his left hand
he held a small Bible, with his forefinger marking a page.</p>
<p>Murray smiled slightly and arranged two or three books and some
penholders orderly on his small table. He would have spoken, but
no appropriate words seemed to present themselves to his mind.</p>
<p>The prisoners had christened this cellhouse, eighty
feet long, twenty-eight feet wide, Limbo Lane. The regular guard
of Limbo Lane, an immense, rough, kindly man, drew a pint bottle
of whiskey from his pocket and offered it to Murray, saying:</p>
<p>"It's the regular thing, you know. All has it who feel like they
need a bracer. No danger of it becoming a habit with 'em, you
see."</p>
<p>Murray drank deep into the bottle.</p>
<p>"That's the boy!" said the guard. "Just a little nerve tonic, and
everything goes smooth as silk."</p>
<p>They stepped into the corridor, and each one of the doomed seven
knew. Limbo Lane is a world on the outside of the world; but it
had learned, when deprived of one or more of the five senses, to
make another sense supply the deficiency. Each one knew that it
was nearly eight, and that Murray was to go to the chair at eight.
There is also in the many Limbo Lanes an aristocracy of crime. The
man who kills in the open, who beats his enemy or pursuer down,
flushed by the primitive emotions and the ardor of combat, holds
in contempt the human rat, the spider, and the snake.</p>
<p>So, of the seven condemned only three called their farewells to
Murray as he marched down the corridor between the two
guards—Bonifacio, Marvin, who had killed a guard while trying to
escape from the prison, and Bassett, the train-robber, who was
driven to it because the express-messenger wouldn't raise his
hands when ordered to do so. The remaining four smoldered, silent,
in their cells, no doubt feeling their social ostracism in Limbo
Lane society more keenly than they did the memory of their less
picturesque offences against the law.</p>
<p>Murray wondered at his own calmness and nearly indifference. In
the execution room were about twenty men, a congregation made up
of prison officers, newspaper reporters, and lookers-on who had
succeeded</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>Here, in the very middle of a sentence, the hand of Death
interrupted the telling of O. Henry's last story. He had planned
to make this story different from his others, the beginning of a
new series in a style he had not previously attempted. "I want to
show the public," he said, "that I can write something new—new
for me, I mean—a story without slang, a straightforward dramatic
plot treated in a way that will come nearer my idea of real
story-writing." Before starting to write the present story, he
outlined briefly how he intended to develop it: Murray, the
criminal accused and convicted of the brutal murder of his
sweetheart—a murder prompted by jealous rage—at first faces the
death penalty, calm, and, to all outward appearances, indifferent
to his fate. As he nears the electric chair he is overcome by a
revulsion of feeling. He is left dazed, stupefied, stunned. The
entire scene in the death-chamber—the witnesses, the spectators,
the preparations for execution—become unreal to him. The thought
flashes through his brain that a terrible mistake is being made.
Why is he being strapped to the chair? What has he done? What
crime has he committed? In the few moments while the straps are
being adjusted a vision comes to him. He dreams a dream. He sees a
little country cottage, bright, sun-lit, nestling in a bower of
flowers. A woman is there, and a little child. He speaks with them
and finds that they are his wife, his child—and the cottage their
home. So, after all, it is a mistake. Some one has frightfully,
irretrievably blundered. The accusation, the trial, the
conviction, the sentence to death in the electric chair—all a
dream. He takes his wife in his arms and kisses the child. Yes,
here is happiness. It was a dream. Then—at a sign from the prison
warden the fatal current is turned on.</p>
<p>Murray had dreamed the wrong dream.</p>
<h2>A RULER OF MEN</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Written at the prime of his popularity and power,
this characteristic and amusing story was published in <i>Everybody's
Magazine</i> in August, 1906.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>I walked the streets of the City of Insolence, thirsting for the
sight of a stranger face. For the City is a desert of familiar
types as thick and alike as the grains in a sand-storm; and you
grow to hate them as you do a friend who is always by you, or one
of your own kin.</p>
<p>And my desire was granted, for I saw near a corner of Broadway and
Twenty-ninth Street, a little flaxen-haired man with a face like a
scaly-bark hickory-nut, selling to a fast-gathering crowd a tool
that omnigeneously proclaimed itself a can-opener, a screw-driver,
a button-hook, a nail-file, a shoe-horn, a watch-guard, a
potato-peeler, and an ornament to any gentleman's key-ring.</p>
<p>And then a stall-fed cop shoved himself through the congregation
of customers. The vender, plainly used to having his seasons of
trade thus abruptly curtailed, closed his satchel and slipped like
a weasel through the opposite segment of the circle. The crowd
scurried aimlessly away like ants from a disturbed crumb. The cop,
suddenly becoming oblivious of the earth and its inhabitants,
stood still, swelling his bulk and putting his club through an
intricate drill of twirls. I hurried after Kansas Bill Bowers, and
caught him by an arm.</p>
<p>Without his looking at me or slowing his pace, I found a
five-dollar bill crumpled neatly into my hand.</p>
<p>"I wouldn't have thought, Kansas Bill," I said, "that you'd hold
an old friend that cheap."</p>
<p>Then he turned his head, and the hickory-nut cracked into a wide
smile.</p>
<p>"Give back the money," said he, "or I'll have the cop after you
for false pretenses. I thought you was the cop."</p>
<p>"I want to talk to you, Bill," I said. "When did you leave
Oklahoma? Where is Reddy McGill now? Why are you selling those
impossible contraptions on the street? How did your Big Horn
gold-mine pan out? How did you get so badly sunburned? What will
you drink?"</p>
<p>"A year ago," answered Kansas Bill systematically. "Putting up
windmills in Arizona. For pin money to buy etceteras with. Salted.
Been down in the tropics. Beer."</p>
<p>We foregathered in a propitious place and became Elijahs, while a
waiter of dark plumage played the raven to perfection.
Reminiscence needs must be had before I could steer Bill into his
epic mood.</p>
<p>"Yes," said he, "I mind the time Timoteo's rope broke on that
cow's horns while the calf was chasing you. You and that cow! I'd
never forget it."</p>
<p>"The tropics," said I, "are a broad territory. What part of Cancer
of Capricorn have you been honoring with a visit?"</p>
<p>"Down along China or Peru—or maybe the Argentine Confederacy,"
said Kansas Bill. "Anyway 'twas among a great race of people,
off-colored but progressive. I was there three months."</p>
<p>"No doubt you are glad to be back among the truly great race," I
surmised. "Especially among New Yorkers, the most progressive and
independent citizens of any country in the world," I continued,
with the fatuity of the provincial who has eaten the Broadway
lotus.</p>
<p>"Do you want to start an argument?" asked Bill.</p>
<p>"Can there be one?" I answered.</p>
<p>"Has an Irishman humor, do you think?" asked he.</p>
<p>"I have an hour or two to spare," said I, looking at the
café clock.</p>
<p>"Not that the Americans aren't a great commercial nation,"
conceded Bill. "But the fault laid with the people who wrote lies
for fiction."</p>
<p>"What was this Irishman's name?" I asked.</p>
<p>"Was that last beer cold enough?" said he.</p>
<p>"I see there is talk of further outbreaks among the Russian
peasants," I remarked.</p>
<p>"His name was Barney O'Connor," said Bill.</p>
<p>Thus, because of our ancient prescience of each other's trail of
thought, we travelled ambiguously to the point where Kansas Bill's
story began:</p>
<p>"I met O'Connor in a boarding-house on the West Side. He invited
me to his hall-room to have a drink, and we became like a dog and
a cat that had been raised together. There he sat, a tall, fine,
handsome man, with his feet against one wall and his back against
the other, looking over a map. On the bed and sticking three feet
out of it was a beautiful gold sword with tassels on it and
rhinestones in the handle.</p>
<p>"'What's this?' says I (for by that time we were well acquainted).
'The annual parade in vilification of the ex-snakes of Ireland?
And what's the line of march? Up Broadway to Forty-second; thence
east to McCarty's café; thence—'</p>
<p>"'Sit down on the wash-stand,' says O'Connor, 'and listen. And
cast no perversions on the sword. 'Twas me father's in old
Munster. And this map, Bowers, is no diagram of a holiday
procession. If ye look again. ye'll see that it's the continent
known as South America, comprising fourteen green, blue, red, and
yellow countries, all crying out from time to time to be liberated
from the yoke of the oppressor.'</p>
<p>"'I know,' says I to O'Connor. 'The idea is a literary one. The
ten-cent magazine stole it from "Ridpath's History of the World
from the Sand-stone Period to the Equator." You'll find it in
every one of 'em. It's a continued story of a soldier of fortune,
generally named O'Keefe, who gets to be dictator while the
Spanish-American populace cries "Cospetto!" and other Italian
maledictions. I misdoubt if it's ever been done. You're not
thinking of trying that, are you, Barney?' I asks.</p>
<p>"'Bowers,' says he, 'you're a man of education and courage.'</p>
<p>"'How can I deny it?' says I. 'Education runs in my family; and I
have acquired courage by a hard struggle with life.'</p>
<p>"'The O'Connors,' says he, 'are a warlike race. There is me
father's sword; and here is the map. A life of inaction is not for
me. The O'Connors were born to rule. 'Tis a ruler of men I must
be.'</p>
<p>"'Barney,' I says to him, 'why don't you get on the force and
settle down to a quiet life of carnage and corruption instead of
roaming off to foreign parts? In what better way can you indulge
your desire to subdue and maltreat the oppressed?'</p>
<p>"'Look again at the map,' says he, 'at the country I have the
point of me knife on. 'Tis that one I have selected to aid and
overthrow with me father's sword.'</p>
<p>"'I see,' says I. 'It's the green one; and that does credit to
your patriotism, and it's the smallest one; and that does credit
to your judgment.'</p>
<p>"'Do ye accuse me of cowardice?' says Barney, turning pink.</p>
<p>"'No man,' says I, 'who attacks and confiscates a country
single-handed could be called a coward. The worst you can be
charged with is plagiarism or imitation. If Anthony Hope and
Roosevelt let you get away with it, nobody else will have any
right to kick.'</p>
<p>"'I'm not joking,' says O'Connor. 'And I've got $1,500 cash to
work the scheme with. I've taken a liking to you. Do you want it,
or not?'</p>
<p>"'I'm not working,' I told him; 'but how is it to be? Do I eat
during the fomentation of the insurrection, or am I only to be
Secretary of War after the country is conquered? Is it to be a pay
envelope or only a portfolio?'</p>
<p>"I'll pay all expenses,' says O'Connor. 'I want a man I can trust.
If we succeed you may pick out any appointment you want in the
gift of the government.'</p>
<p>"'All right, then,' says I. 'You can get me a bunch of draying
contracts and then a quick-action consignment to a seat on the
Supreme Court bench so I won't be in line for the presidency. The
kind of cannon they chasten their presidents with in that country
hurt too much. You can consider me on the pay-roll.'</p>
<p>"Two weeks afterward O'Connor and me took a steamer for the small,
green, doomed country. We were three weeks on the trip. O'Connor
said he had his plans all figured out in advance; but being the
commanding general, it consorted with his dignity to keep the
details concealed from his army and cabinet, commonly known as
William T. Bowers. Three dollars a day was the price for which I
joined the cause of liberating an undiscovered country from the
ills that threatened or sustained it. Every Saturday night on the
steamer I stood in line at parade rest, and O'Connor handed ever
the twenty-one dollars.</p>
<p>"The town we landed at was named Guayaquerita, so they told me.
'Not for me,' says I. 'It'll be little old Hilldale or
Tompkinsville or Cherry Tree Corners when I speak of it. It's a
clear case where Spelling Reform ought to butt in and disenvowel
it.'</p>
<p>"But the town looked fine from the bay when we sailed in. It was
white, with green ruching, and lace ruffles on the skirt when the
surf slashed up on the sand. It looked as tropical and dolce far
ultra as the pictures of Lake Ronkonkoma in the brochure of the
passenger department of the Long Island Railroad.</p>
<p>"We went through the quarantine and custom-house indignities; and
then O'Connor leads me to a 'dobe house on a street called 'The
Avenue of the Dolorous Butterflies of the Individual and
Collective Saints.' Ten feet wide it was, and knee-deep in alfalfa
and cigar stumps.</p>
<p>"'Hooligan Alley,' says I, rechristening it.</p>
<p>"''Twill be our headquarters,' says O'Connor. 'My agent here, Don
Fernando Pacheco, secured it for us.'</p>
<p>"So in that house O'Connor and me established the revolutionary
centre. In the front room we had ostensible things such as fruit,
a guitar, and a table with a conch shell on it. In the back room
O'Connor had his desk and a large looking-glass and his sword hid
in a roll of straw matting. We slept on hammocks that we hung to
hooks in the wall; and took our meals at the Hotel Ingles, a
beanery run on the American plan by a German proprietor with
Chinese cooking served à la Kansas City lunch counter.</p>
<p>"It seems that O'Connor really did have some sort of system
planned out beforehand. He wrote plenty of letters; and every day
or two some native gent would stroll round to headquarters and be
shut up in the back room for half an hour with O'Connor and the
interpreter. I noticed that when they went in they were always
smoking eight-inch cigars and at peace with the world; but when
they came out they would be folding up a ten- or twenty-dollar
bill and cursing the government horribly.</p>
<p>"One evening after we had been in Guaya—in this town of
Smellville-by-the-Sea—about a month, and me and O'Connor were
sitting outside the door helping along old tempus fugit with rum
and ice and limes, I says to him:</p>
<p>"'If you'll excuse a patriot that don't exactly know what he's
patronizing, for the question—what is your scheme for subjugating
this country? Do you intend to plunge it into bloodshed, or do you
mean to buy its votes peacefully and honorably at the polls?'</p>
<p>"'Bowers,' says he, 'ye're a fine little man and I intend to make
great use of ye after the conflict. But ye do not understand
statecraft. Already by now we have a network of strategy clutching
with invisible fingers at the throat of the tyrant Calderas. We
have agents at work in every town in the republic. The Liberal
party is bound to win. On our secret lists we have the names of
enough sympathizers to crush the administration forces at a single
blow.'</p>
<p>"'A straw vote,' says I, 'only shows which way the hot air blows.'</p>
<p>"'Who has accomplished this?' goes on O'Connor. 'I have. I have
directed everything. The time was ripe when we came, so my agents
inform me. The people are groaning under burdens of taxes and
levies. Who will be their natural leader when they rise? Could it
be any one but meself? 'Twas only yesterday that Zaldas, our
representative in the province of Durasnas, tells me that the
people, in secret, already call me "El Library Door," which is the
Spanish manner of saying "The Liberator."'</p>
<p>"'Was Zaldas that maroon-colored old Aztec with a paper collar on
and unbleached domestic shoes?' I asked.</p>
<p>"'He was,' says O'Connor.</p>
<p>"'I saw him tucking a yellow-back into his vest pocket as he came
out,' says I. 'It may be,' says I, 'that they call you a library
door, but they treat you more like the side door of a bank. But
let us hope for the worst.'</p>
<p>"'It has cost money, of course,' says O'Connor; 'but we'll have
the country in our hands inside of a month.'</p>
<p>"In the evenings we walked about in the plaza and listened to the
band playing and mingled with the populace at its distressing and
obnoxious pleasures. There were thirteen vehicles belonging to the
upper classes, mostly rockaways and old-style barouches, such as
the mayor rides in at the unveiling of the new poorhouse at
Milledgeville, Alabama. Round and round the desiccated fountain in
the middle of the plaza they drove, and lifted their high silk
hats to their friends. The common people walked around in
barefooted bunches, puffing stogies that a Pittsburg millionaire
wouldn't have chewed for a dry smoke on Ladies' Day at his club.
And the grandest figure in the whole turnout was Barney O'Connor.
Six foot two he stood in his Fifth Avenue clothes, with his eagle
eye and his black moustache that tickled his ears. He was a born
dictator and czar and hero and harrier of the human race. It
looked to me that all eyes were turned upon O'Connor, and that
every woman there loved him, and every man feared him. Once or
twice I looked at him and thought of funnier things that had
happened than his winning out in his game; and I began to feel
like a Hidalgo de Officio de Grafto de South America myself. And
then I would come down again to solid bottom and let my
imagination gloat, as usual, upon the twenty-one American dollars
due me on Saturday night.</p>
<p>"'Take note,' says O'Connor to me as thus we walked, 'of the mass
of the people. Observe their oppressed and melancholy air. Can ye
not see that they are ripe for revolt? Do ye not perceive that
they are disaffected?'</p>
<p>"'I do not,' says I. 'Nor disinfected either. I'm beginning to
understand these people. When they look unhappy they're enjoying
themselves. When they feel unhappy they go to sleep. They're not
the kind of people to take an interest in revolutions.'</p>
<p>"'They'll flock to our standard,' says O'Connor. 'Three thousand
men in this town alone will spring to arms when the signal is
given. I am assured of that. But everything is in secret. There is
no chance for us to fail.'</p>
<p>"On Hooligan Alley, as I prefer to call the street our
headquarters was on, there was a row of flat 'dobe houses with red
tile roofs, some straw shacks full of Indians and dogs, and one
two-story wooden house with balconies a little farther down. That
was where General Tumbalo, the comandante and commander of the
military forces, lived. Right across the street was a private
residence built like a combination bake-oven and folding-bed. One
day, O'Connor and me were passing it, single file, on the flange
they called a sidewalk, when out of the window flies a big red
rose. O'Connor, who is ahead, picks it up, presses it to his fifth
rib, and bows to the ground. By Carrambos! that man certainly had
the Irish drama chaunceyized. I looked around expecting to see the
little boy and girl in white sateen ready to jump on his shoulder
while he jolted their spinal columns and ribs together through a
breakdown, and sang: 'Sleep, Little One, Sleep.'</p>
<p>"As I passed the window I glanced inside and caught a glimpse of a
white dress and a pair of big, flashing black eyes and gleaming
teeth under a dark lace mantilla.</p>
<p>"When we got back to our house O'Connor began to walk up and down
the floor and twist his moustaches.</p>
<p>"'Did ye see her eyes, Bowers?' he asks me.</p>
<p>"'I did,' says I, 'and I can see more than that. It's all coming
out according to the story-books. I knew there was something
missing. 'Twas the love interest. What is it that comes in Chapter
VII to cheer the gallant Irish adventurer? Why, Love, of
course—Love that makes the hat go around. At last we have the
eyes of midnight hue and the rose flung from the barred window.
Now, what comes next? The underground passage— the intercepted
letter—the traitor in camp—the hero thrown into a dungeon—the
mysterious message from the señorita—then the outburst—the
fighting on the plaza—the—'</p>
<p>"'Don't be a fool,' says O'Connor, interrupting. 'But that's the
only woman in the world for me, Bowers. The O'Connors are as quick
to love as they are to fight. I shall wear that rose over me heart
when I lead me men into action. For a good battle to be fought
there must be some woman to give it power.'</p>
<p>"'Every time,' I agreed, 'if you want to have a good lively scrap.
There's only one thing bothering me. In the novels the
light-haired friend of the hero always gets killed. Think 'em all
over that you've read, and you'll see that I'm right. I think I'll
step down to the Botica Española and lay in a bottle of walnut
stain before war is declared.'</p>
<p>"'How will I find out her name?' says O'Connor, layin' his chin in
his hand.</p>
<p>"'Why don't you go across the street and ask her?' says I.</p>
<p>"'Will ye never regard anything in life seriously?' says O'Connor,
looking down at me like a schoolmaster.</p>
<p>"'Maybe she meant the rose for me,' I said, whistling the Spanish
Fandango.</p>
<p>"For the first time since I'd known O'Connor, he laughed. He got
up and roared and clapped his knees, and leaned against the wall
till the tiles on the roof clattered to the noise of his lungs. He
went into the back room and looked at himself in the glass and
began and laughed all over from the beginning again. Then he
looked at me and repeated himself. That's why I asked you if you
thought an Irishman had any humor. He'd been doing farce comedy
from the day I saw him without knowing it; and the first time he
had an idea advanced to him with any intelligence in it he acted
like two twelfths of the sextet in a 'Floradora' road company.</p>
<p>"The next afternoon he comes in with a triumphant smile and begins
to pull something like ticker tape out of his pocket.</p>
<p>"'Great!' says I. 'This is something like home. How is Amalgamated
Copper to-day?'</p>
<p>"'I've got her name,' says O'Connor, and he reads off something
like this: 'Dona Isabel Antonia Inez Lolita Carreras y Buencaminos
y Monteleon. She lives with her mother,' explains O'Connor. 'Her
father was killed in the last revolution. She is sure to be in
sympathy with our cause.'</p>
<p>"And sure enough the next day she flung a little bunch of roses
clear across the street into our door. O'Connor dived for it and
found a piece of paper curled around a stem with a line in Spanish
on it. He dragged the interpreter out of his corner and got him
busy. The interpreter scratched his head, and gave us as a
translation three best bets: 'Fortune had got a face like the man
fighting'; 'Fortune looks like a brave man'; and 'Fortune favors
the brave.' We put our money on the last one.</p>
<p>"'Do ye see?' says O'Connor. 'She intends to encourage me sword to
save her country.'</p>
<p>"'It looks to me like an invitation to supper,' says I.</p>
<p>"So every day this señorita sits behind the barred windows
and exhausts a conservatory or two, one posy at a time. And O'Connor
walks like a Dominecker rooster and swells his chest and swears to
me he will win her by feats of arms and big deeds on the gory
field of battle.</p>
<p>"By and by the revolution began to get ripe. One day O'Connor
takes me into the back room and tells me all.</p>
<p>"'Bowers,' says he, 'at twelve o'clock one week from to-day the
struggle will take place. It has pleased ye to find amusement and
diversion in this project because ye have not sense enough to
perceive that it is easily accomplished by a man of courage,
intelligence, and historical superiority, such as meself. The
whole world over,' says he, 'the O'Connors have ruled men, women,
and nations. To subdue a small and indifferent country like this
is a trifle. Ye see what little, barefooted manikins the men of it
are. I could lick four of 'em single-handed.'</p>
<p>"'No doubt,' says I. 'But could you lick six? And suppose they
hurled an army of seventeen against you?'</p>
<p>"'Listen,' says O'Connor, 'to what will occur. At noon next
Tuesday 25,000 patriots will rise up in the towns of the republic.
The government will be absolutely unprepared. The public buildings
will be taken, the regular army made prisoners, and the new
administration set up. In the capital it will not be so easy on
account of most of the army being stationed there. They will
occupy the president's palace and the strongly fortified
government buildings and stand a siege. But on the very day of the
outbreak a body of our troops will begin a march to the capital
from every town as soon as the local victory has been won. The
thing is so well planned that it is an impossibility for us to
fail. I meself will lead the troops from here. The new president
will be Señor Espadas, now Minister of Finance in the
present cabinet.'</p>
<p>"'What do you get?' I asked.</p>
<p>"''Twill be strange,' said O'Connor smiling, 'if I don't have all
the jobs handed to me on a silver salver to pick what I choose.
I've been the brains of the scheme, and when the fighting opens I
guess I won't be in the rear rank. Who managed it so our troops
could get arms smuggled into this country? Didn't I arrange it
with a New York firm before I left there? Our financial agents
inform me that 20,000 stands of Winchester rifles have been
delivered a month ago at a secret place up coast and distributed
among the towns. I tell you, Bowers, the game is already won.'</p>
<p>"Well, that kind of talk kind of shook my disbelief in the
infallibility of the serious Irish gentleman soldier of fortune.
It certainly seemed that the patriotic grafters had gone about the
thing in a business way. I looked upon O'Connor with more respect,
and began to figure on what kind of uniform I might wear as
Secretary of War.</p>
<p>"Tuesday, the day set for the revolution, came around according to
schedule. O'Connor said that a signal had been agreed upon for the
uprising. There was an old cannon on the beach near the national
warehouse. That had been secretly loaded and promptly at twelve
o'clock was to be fired off. Immediately the revolutionists would
seize their concealed arms, attack the comandante's troops in the
cuartel, and capture the custom-house and all government property
and supplies.</p>
<p>"I was nervous all the morning. And about eleven o'clock O'Connor
became infused with the excitement and martial spirit of murder.
He geared his father's sword around him, and walked up and down in
the back room like a lion in the Zoo suffering from corns. I
smoked a couple of dozen cigars, and decided on yellow stripes
down the trouser legs of my uniform.</p>
<p>"At half-past eleven O'Connor asks me to take a short stroll
through the streets to see if I could notice any signs of the
uprising. I was back in fifteen minutes.</p>
<p>"'Did you hear anything?' he asks.</p>
<p>"'I did,' says I. 'At first I thought it was drums. But it wasn't;
it was snoring. Everybody in town's asleep.'</p>
<p>"O'Connor tears out his watch.</p>
<p>"'Fools!' says he. 'They've set the time right at the siesta hour
when everybody takes a nap. But the cannon will wake 'em up.
Everything will be all right, depend upon it.'</p>
<p>"Just at twelve o'clock we heard the sound of a
cannon—BOOM!—shaking the whole town.</p>
<p>"O'Connor loosens his sword in its scabbard and jumps for the
door. I went as far as the door and stood in it.</p>
<p>"People were sticking their heads out of doors and windows. But
there was one grand sight that made the landscape look tame.</p>
<p>"General Tumbalo, the comandante, was rolling down the steps of
his residential dugout, waving a five-foot sabre in his hand. He
wore his cocked and plumed hat and his dress-parade coat covered
with gold braid and buttons. Sky-blue pajamas, one rubber boot,
and one red-plush slipper completed his make-up.</p>
<p>"The general had heard the cannon, and he puffed down the sidewalk
toward the soldiers' barracks as fast as his rudely awakened two
hundred pounds could travel.</p>
<p>"O'Connor sees him and lets out a battle-cry and draws his
father's sword and rushes across the street and tackles the
enemy.</p>
<p>"Right there in the street he and the general gave an exhibition
of blacksmithing and butchery. Sparks flew from their blades, the
general roared, and O'Connor gave the slogan of his race and
proclivities.</p>
<p>"Then the general's sabre broke in two; and he took to his
ginger-colored heels crying out, 'Policios,' at every jump.
O'Connor chased him a block, imbued with the sentiment of
manslaughter, and slicing buttons off the general's coat tails
with the paternal weapon. At the corner five barefooted policemen
in cotton undershirts and straw fiats climbed over O'Connor and
subjugated him according to the municipal statutes.</p>
<p>"They brought him past the late revolutionary headquarters on the
way to jail. I stood in the door. A policeman had him by each hand
and foot, and they dragged him on his back through the grass like
a turtle. Twice they stopped, and the odd policeman took another's
place while he rolled a cigarette. The great soldier of fortune
turned his head and looked at me as they passed. I blushed, and
lit another cigar. The procession passed on, and at ten minutes
past twelve everybody had gone back to sleep again.</p>
<p>"In the afternoon the interpreter came around and smiled as he
laid his hand on the big red jar we usually kept ice-water in.</p>
<p>"'The ice-man didn't call to-day,' says I. 'What's the matter with
everything, Sancho?'</p>
<p>"'Ah, yes,' says the liver-colored linguist. 'They just tell me in
the town. Verree bad act that Señor O'Connor make fight with
General Tumbalo. Yes, general Tumbalo great soldier and big mans.'</p>
<p>"'What'll they do to Mr. O'Connor?' I asks.</p>
<p>"'I talk little while presently with the Juez de la Paz—what you
call Justice-with-the-peace,' says Sancho. 'He tell me it verree
bad crime that one Señor Americano try kill General Tumbalo.
He say they keep señor O'Connor in jail six months; then
have trial and shoot him with guns. Verree sorree.'</p>
<p>"'How about this revolution that was to be pulled off?' I asks.</p>
<p>"'Oh,' says this Sancho, 'I think too hot weather for revolution.
Revolution better in winter-time. Maybe so next winter. Quien
sabe?'</p>
<p>"'But the cannon went off,' says I. 'The signal was given.'</p>
<p>"'That big sound?' says Sancho, grinning. 'The boiler in ice
factory he blow up—BOOM! Wake everybody up from siesta. Verree
sorree. No ice. Mucho hot day.'</p>
<p>"About sunset I went over to the jail, and they let me talk to
O'Connor through the bars.</p>
<p>"'What's the news, Bowers?' says he. 'Have we taken the town? I've
been expecting a rescue party all the afternoon. I haven't heard
any firing. Has any word been received from the capital?'</p>
<p>"'Take it easy, Barney,' says I. 'I think there's been a change of
plans. There's something more important to talk about. Have you
any money?'</p>
<p>"'I have not,' says O'Connor. 'The last dollar went to pay our
hotel bill yesterday. Did our troops capture the custom-house?
There ought be plenty of government money there.'</p>
<p>"'Segregate your mind from battles,' says I. 'I've been making
inquiries. You're to be shot six months from date for assault and
battery. I'm expecting to receive fifty years at hard labor for
vagrancy. All they furnish you while you're a prisoner is water.
You depend on your friends for food. I'll see what I can do.'</p>
<p>"I went away and found a silver Chile dollar in an old vest of
O'Connor's. I took him some fried fish and rice for his supper. In
the morning I went down to a lagoon and had a drink of water, and
then went back to the jail. O'Connor had a porterhouse steak look
in his eye.</p>
<p>"'Barney,' says I, 'I've found a pond full of the finest kind of
water. It's the grandest, sweetest, purest water in the world. Say
the word and I'll go fetch you a bucket of it and you can throw
this vile government stuff out the window. I'll do anything I can
for a friend.'</p>
<p>"'Has it come to this?' says O'Connor, raging up and down his
cell. 'Am I to be starved to death and then shot? I'll make those
traitors feel the weight of an O'Connor's hand when I get out of
this.' And then he comes to the bars and speaks softer. 'Has
nothing been heard from Dona Isabel?' he asks. 'Though every one
else in the world fail,' says he, 'I trust those eyes of hers. She
will find a way to effect my release. Do ye think ye could
communicate with her? One word from her—even a rose would make me
sorrow light. But don't let her know except with the utmost
delicacy, Bowers. These high-bred Castilians are sensitive and
proud.'</p>
<p>"'Well said, Barney,' says I. 'You've given me an idea. I'll
report later. Something's got to be pulled off quick, or we'll
both starve.'</p>
<p>"I walked out and down to Hooligan Alley, and then on the other
side of the street. As I went past the window of Dona Isabel
Antonia Concha Regalia, out flies the rose as usual and hits me on
the ear.</p>
<p>"The door was open, and I took off my hat and walked in. It wasn't
very light; inside, but there she sat in a rocking-chair by the
window smoking a black cheroot. And when I got closer I saw that
she was about thirty-nine, and had never seen a straight front in
her life. I sat down on the arm of her chair, and took the cheroot
out of her mouth and stole a kiss.</p>
<p>"'Hullo, Izzy,' I says. 'Excuse my unconventionality, but I feel
like I have known you for a month. Whose Izzy is oo?'</p>
<p>"The lady ducked her head under her mantilla, and drew in a long
breath. I thought she was going to scream, but with all that
intake of air she only came out with: 'Me likee Americanos.'</p>
<p>"As soon as she said that, I knew that O'Connor and me would be
doing things with a knife and fork before the day was over. I drew
a chair beside her, and inside of half an hour we were engaged.
Then I took my hat and said I must go out for a while.</p>
<p>"'You come back?' says Izzy, in alarm.</p>
<p>"'Me go bring preacher,' says I. 'Come back twenty minutes. We
marry now. How you likee?'</p>
<p>"'Marry to-day?' says Izzy. 'Good!'</p>
<p>"I went down on the beach to the United States consul's shack. He
was a grizzly man, eighty-two pounds, smoked glasses, five foot
eleven, pickled. He was playing chess with an india-rubber man in
white clothes.</p>
<p>"'Excuse me for interrupting,' says I, 'but can you tell me how a
man could get married quick?'</p>
<p>"The consul gets up and fingers in a pigeonhole.</p>
<p>"'I believe I had a license to perform the ceremony  myself, a
year or two ago,' he said. 'I'll look, and—'</p>
<p>"I caught hold of his arm.</p>
<p>"'Don't look it up,' says I. 'Marriage is a lottery anyway.
I'm willing to take the risk about the license if you are.'</p>
<p>"The consul went back to Hooligan Alley with me. Izzy called her
ma to come in, but the old lady was picking a chicken in the patio
and begged to be excused. So we stood up and the consul performed
the ceremony.</p>
<p>"That evening Mrs. Bowers cooked a great supper of stewed goat,
tamales, baked bananas, fricasseed red peppers and coffee.
Afterward I sat in the rocking-chair by the front window, and she
sat on the floor plunking at a guitar and happy, as she should be,
as Mrs. William T. B.</p>
<p>"All at once I sprang up in a hurry. I'd forgotten all about
O'Connor. I asked Izzy to fix up a lot of truck for him to eat.</p>
<p>"'That big, oogly man,' said Izzy. 'But all right—he your
friend.'</p>
<p>"I pulled a rose out of a bunch in a jar, and took the grub-basket
around to the jail. O'Connor ate like a wolf. Then he wiped his
face with a banana peel and said: 'Have you heard nothing from
Dona Isabel yet?'</p>
<p>"'Hist!' says I, slipping the rose between the bars. 'She sends
you this. She bids you take courage. At nightfall two masked men
brought it to the ruined chateau in the orange grove. How did you
like that goat hash, Barney?'</p>
<p>"O'Connor pressed the rose to his lips. "'This is more to me than
all the food in the world,' says he. 'But the supper was fine.
Where did you raise it?'</p>
<p>"'I've negotiated a stand-off at a delicatessen hut downtown,' I
tells him. 'Rest easy. If there's anything to be done I'll do it.'</p>
<p>"So things went along that way for some weeks. Izzy was a great
cook; and if she had had a little more poise of character and
smoked a little better brand of tobacco we might have drifted into
some sense of responsibility for the honor I had conferred on her.
But as time went on I began to hunger for the sight of a real lady
standing before me in a street-car. All I was staying in that land
of bilk and money for was because I couldn't get away, and I
thought it no more than decent to stay and see O'Connor shot.</p>
<p>"One day our old interpreter drops around and after smoking an
hour says that the judge of the peace sent him to request me to
call on him. I went to his office in a lemon grove on a hill at
the edge of the town; and there I had a surprise. I expected to
see one of the usual cinnamon-colored natives in congress gaiters
and one of Pizzaro's cast-off hats. What I saw was an elegant
gentleman of a slightly claybank complexion sitting in an
upholstered leather chair, sipping a highball and reading Mrs.
Humphry Ward. I had smuggled into my brain a few words of Spanish
by the help of Izzy, and I began to remark in a rich Andalusian
brogue:</p>
<p>"'Buenas dias, señor. Yo tengo—yo tengo—'</p>
<p>"'Oh, sit down, Mr. Bowers,' says he. 'I spent eight years in your
country in colleges and law schools. Let me mix you a highball.
Lemon peel, or not?'</p>
<p>"Thus we got along. In about half an hour I was beginning to tell
him about the scandal in our family when Aunt Elvira ran away with
a Cumberland Presbyterian preacher. Then he says to me:</p>
<p>"'I sent for you, Mr. Bowers, to let you know that you can have
your friend Mr. O'Connor now. Of course we had to make a show of
punishing him on account of his attack on General Tumbalo. It is
arranged that he shall be released to-morrow night. You and he
will be conveyed on board the fruit steamer Voyager, bound for New
York, which lies in the harbor. Your passage will be arranged
for.'</p>
<p>"'One moment, judge,' says I; 'that revolution—'</p>
<p>"The judge lays back in his chair and howls.</p>
<p>"'Why,' says he presently, 'that was all a little joke
fixed up by the boys around the court-room, and one or
two of our cut-ups, and a few clerks in the stores.
The town is bursting its sides with laughing. The boys
made themselves up to be conspirators, and they—what you call
it?—stick Señor O'Connor for his money. It is very funny.'</p>
<p>"'It was,' says I. 'I saw the joke all along. I'll take another
highball, if your Honor don't mind.'</p>
<p>"The next evening just at dark a couple of soldiers brought
O'Connor down to the beach, where I was waiting under a
cocoanut-tree.</p>
<p>"'Hist!' says I in his ear: 'Dona Isabel has arranged our escape.
Not a word!'</p>
<p>"They rowed us in a boat out to a little steamer that smelled of
table d'hote salad oil and bone phosphate.</p>
<p>"The great, mellow, tropical moon was rising as we steamed away.
O'Connor leaned on the taffrail or rear balcony of the ship and
gazed silently at Guaya—at Buncoville-on-the-Beach.</p>
<p>"He had the red rose in his hand.</p>
<p>"'She will wait,' I heard him say. 'Eyes like hers never deceive.
But I shall see her again. Traitors cannot keep an O'Connor down
forever.'</p>
<p>"'You talk like a sequel,' says I. 'But in Volume II please omit
the light-haired friend who totes the grub to the hero in his
dungeon cell.'</p>
<p>"And thus reminiscing, we came back to New York."</p>
<p>There was a little silence broken only by the familiar roar of the
streets after Kansas Bill Bowers ceased talking.</p>
<p>"Did O'Connor ever go back?" I asked.</p>
<p>"He attained his heart's desire," said Bill. "Can you walk two
blocks? I'll show you."</p>
<p>He led me eastward and down a flight of stairs that was covered by
a curious-shaped glowing, pagoda-like structure. Signs and figures
on the tiled walls and supporting columns attested that we were in
the Grand Central station of the subway. Hundreds of people were
on the midway platform.</p>
<p>An uptown express dashed up and halted. It was crowded.  There was
a rush for it by a still larger crowd.</p>
<p>Towering above every one there a magnificent, broad-shouldered,
athletic man leaped into the centre of the struggle. Men and women
he seized in either hand and hurled them like manikins toward the
open gates of the train.</p>
<p>Now and then some passenger with a shred of soul and self-respect
left to him turned to offer remonstrance; but the blue uniform on
the towering figure, the fierce and conquering glare of his eye
and the ready impact of his ham-like hands glued together the lips
that would have spoken complaint.</p>
<p>When the train was full, then he exhibited to all who might
observe and admire his irresistible genius as a ruler of men. With
his knees, with his elbows, with his shoulders, with his
resistless feet he shoved, crushed, slammed, heaved, kicked,
flung, pounded the overplus of passengers aboard. Then with the
sounds of its wheels drowned by the moans, shrieks, prayers, and
curses of its unfortunate crew, the express dashed away.</p>
<p>"That's him. Ain't he a wonder?" said Kansas Bill admiringly.
"That tropical country wasn't the place for him. I wish the
distinguished traveller, writer, war correspondent, and playright,
Richmond Hobson Davis, could see him now. O'Connor ought to be
dramatized."</p>
<h2>THE ATAVISM OF JOHN TOM LITTLE BEAR</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[O. Henry thought this the best of the
Jeff Peters stories, all the rest of which are included in
"The Gentle Grafter," except "Cupid à la Carte" in
the "Heart of the West." "The Atavism of John Tom Little
Bear" appeared in <i>Everybody's Magazine</i> for July,
1903.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>I saw a light in Jeff Peters's room over the Red Front Drug Store.
I hastened toward it, for I had not known that Jeff was in town.
He is a man of the Hadji breed, of a hundred occupations, with a
story to tell (when he will) of each one.</p>
<p>I found Jeff repacking his grip for a run down to Florida to look
at an orange grove for which he had traded, a month before, his
mining claim on the Yukon. He kicked me a chair, with the same old
humorous, profound smile on his seasoned countenance. It had been
eight months since we had met, but his greeting was such as men
pass from day to day. Time is Jeff's servant, and the continent is
a big lot across which he cuts to his many roads.</p>
<p>For a while we skirmished along the edges of unprofitable talk
which culminated in that unquiet problem of the Philippines.</p>
<p>"All them tropical races," said Jeff, "could be run out better
with their own jockeys up. The tropical man knows what he wants.
All he wants is a season ticket to the cock-fights and a pair of
Western Union climbers to go up the bread-fruit tree. The
Anglo-Saxon man wants him to learn to conjugate and wear
suspenders. He'll be happiest in his own way."</p>
<p>I was shocked.</p>
<p>"Education, man," I said, "is the watchword. In time they will
rise to our standard of civilization. Look at what education has
done for the Indian."</p>
<p>"O-ho!" sang Jeff, lighting his pipe (which was a good sign).
"Yes, the Indian! I'm looking. I hasten to contemplate the redman
as a standard bearer of progress. He's the same as the other brown
boys. You can't make an Anglo-Saxon of him. Did I ever tell you
about the time my friend John Tom Little Bear bit off the right
ear of the arts of culture and education and spun the teetotum
back round to where it was when Columbus was a little boy? I did
not?</p>
<p>"John Tom Little Bear was an educated Cherokee Indian and an old
friend of mine when I was in the Territories. He was a graduate of
one of them Eastern football colleges that have been so successful
in teaching the Indian to use the gridiron instead of burning his
victims at the stake. As an Anglo-Saxon, John Tom was
copper-colored in spots. As an Indian, he was one of the whitest
men I ever knew. As a Cherokee, he was a gentleman on the first
ballot. As a ward of the nation, he was mighty hard to carry at
the primaries.</p>
<p>"John Tom and me got together and began to make medicine—how to
get up some lawful, genteel swindle which we might work in a quiet
way so as not to excite the stupidity of the police or the
cupidity of the larger corporations. We had close upon $500
between us, and we pined to make it grow, as all respectable
capitalists do.</p>
<p>"So we figured out a proposition which seems to be as honorable as
a gold mine prospectus and as profitable as a church raffle. And
inside of thirty days you find us swarming into Kansas with a pair
of fluent horses and a red camping wagon on the European plan.
John Tom is Chief Wish-Heap-Dough, the famous Indian medicine man
and Samaritan Sachem of the Seven Tribes. Mr. Peters is business
manager and half owner. We needed a third man, so we looked around
and found J. Conyngham Binkly leaning against the want column of a
newspaper. This Binkly has a disease for Shakespearian rôles,
and an hallucination about a 200 nights' run on the New York stage.
But he confesses that he never could earn the butter to spread on
his William S. rôles, so he is willing to drop to the ordinary
baker's kind, and be satisfied with a 200-mile run behind the
medicine ponies. Besides Richard III, he could do twenty-seven
coon songs and banjo specialties, and was willing to cook, and
curry the horses. We carried a fine line of excuses for taking
money. One was a magic soap for removing grease spots and quarters
from clothes. One was a Sum-wah-tah, the great Indian Remedy made
from a prairie herb revealed by the Great Spirit in a dream to his
favorite medicine men, the great chiefs McGarrity and Siberstein,
bottlers, Chicago. And the other was a frivolous system of
pick-pocketing the Kansasters that had the department stores
reduced to a decimal fraction. Look ye! A pair of silk garters, a
dream book, one dozen clothespins, a gold tooth, and 'When
Knighthood Was in Flower' all wrapped up in a genuine Japanese
silkarina handkerchief and handed to the handsome lady by Mr.
Peters for the trivial sum of fifty cents, while Professor Binkly
entertains us in a three-minute round with the banjo.</p>
<p>"'Twas an eminent graft we had. We ravaged peacefully through the
State, determined to remove all doubt as to why 'twas called
bleeding Kansas. John Tom Little Bear, in full Indian chief's
costume, drew crowds away from the parchesi sociables and
government ownership conversaziones. While at the football college
in the East he had acquired quantities of rhetoric and the art of
calisthenics and sophistry in his classes, and when he stood up in
the red wagon and explained to the farmers, eloquent, about
chilblains and hyperæsthesia of the cranium, Jeff couldn't
hand out the Indian Remedy fast enough for 'em.</p>
<p>"One night we was camped on the edge of a little town out west of
Salina. We always camped near a stream, and put up a little tent.
Sometimes we sold out of the Remedy unexpected, and then Chief
Wish-Heap-Dough would have a dream in which the Manitou commanded
him to fill up a few bottles of Sum-wah-tah at the most convenient
place. 'Twas about ten o'clock, and we'd just got in from a street
performance. I was in the tent with the lantern, figuring up the
day's profits. John Tom hadn't taken off his Indian make-up, and
was sitting by the campfire minding a fine sirloin steak in the
pan for the Professor till he finished his hair-raising scene with
the trained horses.</p>
<p>"All at once out of dark bushes comes a pop like a firecracker,
and John Tom gives a grunt and digs out of his bosom a little
bullet that has dented itself against his collar-bone. John Tom
makes a dive in the direction of the fireworks, and comes back
dragging by the collar a kid about nine or ten years young, in a
velveteen suit, with a little nickel-mounted rifle in his hand
about as big as a fountain-pen.</p>
<p>"'Here, you pappoose,' says John Tom, 'what are you gunning for
with that howitzer? You might hit somebody in the eye. Come out,
Jeff, and mind the steak. Don't let it burn, while I investigate
this demon with the pea shooter.'</p>
<p>"'Cowardly redskin,' says the kid like he was quoting from a
favorite author. 'Dare to burn me at the stake and the paleface
will sweep you from the prairies like—like everything. Now, you
lemme go, or I'll tell mamma.'</p>
<p>"John Tom plants the kid on a camp-stool, and sits down by him.
'Now, tell the big chief,' he says, 'why you try to shoot pellets
into your Uncle John's system. Didn't you know it was loaded?'</p>
<p>"'Are you a Indian?' asks the kid, looking up cute as you please
at John Tom's buckskin and eagle feathers.</p>
<p>"'I am,' says John Tom. 'Well, then, that's why,' answers the boy,
swinging his feet. I nearly let the steak burn watching the nerve
of that youngster.</p>
<p>"'O-ho!' says John Tom, 'I see. You're the Boy Avenger.  And
you've sworn to rid the continent of the savage redman. Is that
about the way of it, son?'</p>
<p>"The kid halfway nodded his head. And then he looked glum. 'Twas
indecent to wring his secret from his bosom before a single brave
had fallen before his parlor-rifle.</p>
<p>"'Now, tell us where your wigwam is, pappoose,' says John
Tom—'where you live? Your mamma will be worrying about you being
out so late. Tell me, and I'll take you home.'</p>
<p>"The kid grins. 'I guess not,' he says. 'I live thousands and
thousands of miles over there.' He gyrated his hand toward the
horizon. 'I come on the train,' he says, 'by myself. I got off
here because the conductor said my ticket had ex-pirated.' He
looks at John Tom with sudden suspicion 'I bet you ain't a
Indian,' he says. 'You don't talk like a Indian. You look like
one, but all a Indian can say is "heap good" and "paleface die."
Say, I bet you are one of them make-believe Indians that sell
medicine on the streets. I saw one once in Quincy.'</p>
<p>"'You never mind,' says John Tom, 'whether I'm a cigar-sign or a
Tammany cartoon. The question before the council is what's to be
done with you. You've run away from home. You've been reading
Howells. You've disgraced the profession of boy avengers by trying
to shoot a tame Indian, and never saying: "Die, dog of a redskin!
You have crossed the path of the Boy Avenger nineteen times too
often." What do you mean by it?'</p>
<p>"The kid thought for a minute. 'I guess I made a mistake,' he
says. 'I ought to have gone farther west. They find 'em wild out
there in the canyons.' He holds out his hand to John Tom, the
little rascal. 'Please excuse me, sir,' says he, 'for shooting at
you. I hope it didn't hurt you. But you ought to be more careful.
When a scout sees a Indian in his war-dress, his rifle must
speak.' Little Bear give a big laugh with a whoop at the end of
it, and swings the kid ten feet high and sets him on his shoulder,
and the runaway fingers the fringe and the eagle feathers and is
full of the joy the white man knows when he dangles his heels
against an inferior race. It is plain that Little Bear and that
kid are chums from that on. The little renegade has already smoked
the pipe of peace with the savage; and you can see in his eye that
he is figuring on a tomahawk and a pair of moccasins, children's
size.</p>
<p>"We have supper in the tent. The youngster looks upon me and the
Professor as ordinary braves, only intended as a background to the
camp scene. When he is seated on a box of Sum-wah-tah, with the
edge of the table sawing his neck, and his mouth full of
beefsteak, Little Bear calls for his name. 'Roy,' says the kid,
with a sirloiny sound to it. But when the rest of it and his
post-office address is referred to, he shakes his head. 'I guess
not,' he says. 'You'll send me back. I want to stay with you. I
like this camping out. At home, we fellows had a camp in our back
yard. They called me Roy, the Red Wolf! I guess that'll do for a
name. Gimme another piece of beefsteak, please.'</p>
<p>"We had to keep that kid. We knew there was a hullabaloo about him
somewheres, and that Mamma, and Uncle Harry, and Aunt Jane, and
the Chief of Police were hot after finding his trail, but not
another word would he tell us. In two days he was the mascot of
the Big Medicine outfit, and all of us had a sneaking hope that
his owners wouldn't turn up. When the red wagon was doing business
he was in it, and passed up the bottles to Mr. Peters as proud and
satisfied as a prince that's abjured a two-hundred-dollar crown
for a million-dollar parvenuess. Once John Tom asked him something
about his papa. 'I ain't got any papa,' he says. 'He runned away
and left us. He made my mamma cry. Aunt Lucy says he's a shape.'
'A what?' somebody asks him. 'A shape,' says the kid; 'some kind
of a shape—lemme see—oh, yes, a feendenuman shape. I don't know
what it means.' John Tom was for putting our brand on him, and
dressing him up like a little chief, with wampum and beads, but I
vetoes it. 'Somebody's lost that kid, is my view of it, and they
may want him. You let me try him with a few stratagems, and see if
I can't get a look at his visiting-card.'</p>
<p>"So that night I goes up to Mr. Roy Blank by the camp-fire, and
looks at him contemptuous and scornful. 'Snickenwitzel!' says I,
like the word made me sick; 'Snickenwitzel! Bah! Before I'd be
named Snickenwitzel!'</p>
<p>"'What's the matter with you, Jeff?' says the kid, opening his
eyes wide.</p>
<p>"'Snickenwitzel!' I repeats, and I spat, the word out. 'I saw a
man to-day from your town, and he told me your name. I'm not
surprised you was ashamed to tell it. Snickenwitzel! Whew!'</p>
<p>"'Ah, here, now,' says the boy, indignant and wriggling all over,
'what's the matter with you? That ain't my name. It's Conyers.
What's the matter with you?'</p>
<p>"'And that's not the worst of it,' I went on quick, keeping him
hot and not giving him time to think. 'We thought you was from a
nice, well-to-do family. Here's Mr. Little Bear, a chief of the
Cherokees, entitled to wear nine otter tails on his Sunday
blanket, and Professor Binkly, who plays Shakespeare and the
banjo, and me, that's got hundreds of dollars in that black tin
box in the wagon, and we've got to be careful about the company we
keep. That man tells me your folks live 'way down in little old
Hencoop Alley, where there are no sidewalks, and the goats eat off
the table with you.'</p>
<p>"That kid was almost crying now. ''Taint so,' he splutters.
'He—he don't know what he's talking about. We live on Poplar
Av'noo. I don't 'sociate with goats. What's the matter with you?'</p>
<p>"'Poplar Avenue,' says I, sarcastic. 'Poplar Avenue! That's a
street to live on! It only runs two blocks and then falls off a
bluff. You can throw a keg of nails the whole length of it. Don't
talk to me about Poplar Avenue.'</p>
<p>"'It's—it's miles long,' says the kid. 'Our number's 862 and
there's lots of houses after that. What's the matter with—aw, you
make me tired, Jeff.'</p>
<p>"'Well, well, now,' says I. 'I guess that man made a mistake.
Maybe it was some other boy he was talking about. If I catch him
I'll teach him to go around slandering people.' And after supper I
goes up town and telegraphs to Mrs. Conyers, 862 Poplar Avenue,
Quincy, Ill., that the kid is safe and sassy with us, and will be
held for further orders. In two hours an answer comes to hold him
tight, and she'll start for him by next train.</p>
<p>"The next train was due at 6 <span class="smallcaps">p.m.</span>
the next day, and me and John
Tom was at the depot with the kid. You might scour the plains in
vain for the big Chief Wish-Heap-Dough. In his place is Mr. Little
Bear in the human habiliments of the Anglo-Saxon sect; and the
leather of his shoes is patented and the loop of his necktie is
copyrighted. For these things John Tom had grafted on him at
college along with metaphysics and the knockout guard for the low
tackle. But for his complexion, which is some yellowish, and the
black mop of his straight hair, you might have thought here was an
ordinary man out of the city directory that subscribes for
magazines and pushes the lawn-mower in his shirt-sleeves of
evenings.</p>
<p>"Then the train rolled in, and a little woman in a gray dress,
with sort of illuminating hair, slides off and looks around quick.
And the Boy Avenger sees her, and yells 'Mamma,' and she cries
'O!' and they meet in a clinch, and now the pesky redskins can
come forth from their caves on the plains without fear any more of
the rifle of Roy, the Red Wolf. Mrs. Conyers comes up and thanks
me an' John Tom without the usual extremities you always look for
in a woman. She says just enough, in a way to convince, and there
is no incidental music by the orchestra. I made a few illiterate
requisitions upon the art of conversation, at which the lady
smiles friendly, as if she had known me a week. And then Mr.
Little Bear adorns the atmosphere with the various idioms into
which education can fracture the wind of speech. I could see the
kid's mother didn't quite place John Tom; but it seemed she was
apprised in his dialects, and she played up to his lead in the
science of making three words do the work of one.</p>
<p>"That kid introduced us, with some footnotes and explanations that
made things plainer than a week of rhetoric. He danced around, and
punched us in the back, and tried to climb John Tom's leg. 'This
is John Tom, mamma,' says he. 'He's a Indian. He sells medicine in
a red wagon. I shot him, but he wasn't wild. The other one's Jeff.
He's a fakir, too. Come on and see the camp where we live, won't
you, mamma?'</p>
<p>"It is plain to see that the life of the woman is in that boy. She
has got him again where her arms can gather him, and that's
enough. She's ready to do anything to please him. She hesitates
the eighth of a second and takes another look at these men. I
imagine she says to herself about John Tom, 'Seems to be a
gentleman, if his hair don't curl.' And Mr. Peters she disposes of
as follows: 'No ladies' man, but a man who knows a lady.'</p>
<p>"So we all rambled down to the camp as neighborly as coming from a
wake. And there she inspects the wagon and pats the place with her
hand where the kid used to sleep, and dabs around her eyewinkers
with her handkerchief. And Professor Binkly gives us 'Trovatore'
on one string of the banjo, and is about to slide off into
Hamlet's monologue when one of the horses gets tangled in his rope
and he must go look after him, and says something about 'foiled
again.'</p>
<p>"When it got dark me and John Tom walked back up to the Corn
Exchange Hotel, and the four of us had supper there. I think the
trouble started at that supper, for then was when Mr. Little Bear
made an intellectual balloon ascension. I held on to the
tablecloth, and listened to him soar. That redman, if I could
judge, had the gift of information. He took language, and did with
it all a Roman can do with macaroni. His vocal remarks was all
embroidered over with the most scholarly verbs and prefixes. And
his syllables was smooth, and fitted nicely to the joints of his
idea. I thought I'd heard him talk before, but I hadn't. And it
wasn't the size of his words, but the way they come; and 'twasn't
his subjects, for he spoke of common things like cathedrals and
football and poems and catarrh and souls and freight rates and
sculpture. Mrs. Conyers understood his accents, and the elegant
sounds went back and forth between 'em. And now and then Jefferson
D. Peters would intervene a few shop-worn, senseless words to have
the butter passed or another leg of the chicken.</p>
<p>"Yes, John Tom Little Bear appeared to be inveigled some in his
bosom about that Mrs. Conyers. She was of the kind that pleases.
She had the good looks and more, I'll tell you. You take one of
these cloak models in a big store. They strike you as being on the
impersonal system. They are adapted for the eye. What they run to
is inches around and complexion, and the art of fanning the
delusion that the sealskin would look just as well on the lady
with the warts and the pocket-book. Now, if one of them models was
off duty, and you took it, and it would say 'Charlie' when you
pressed it, and sit up at the table, why, then you would have
something similar to Mrs. Conyers. I could see how John Tom could
resist any inclination to hate that white squaw.</p>
<p>"The lady and the kid stayed at the hotel. In the morning, they
say, they will start for home. Me and Little Bear left at eight
o'clock, and sold Indian Remedy on the courthouse square till
nine. He leaves me and the Professor to drive down to camp, while
he stays up town. I am not enamored with that plan, for it shows
John Tom is uneasy in his composures, and that leads to firewater,
and sometimes to the green corn dance and costs. Not often does
Chief Wish-Heap-Dough get busy with the firewater, but whenever he
does there is heap much doing in the lodges of the palefaces who
wear blue and carry the club.</p>
<p>"At half-past nine Professor Binkly is rolled in his quilt snoring
in blank verse, and I am sitting by the fire listening to the
frogs. Mr. Little Bear slides into camp and sits down against a
tree. There is no symptoms of firewater.</p>
<p>"'Jeff,' says he, after a long time, 'a little boy came West to
hunt Indians.'</p>
<p>"'Well, then?' says I, for I wasn't thinking as he was.</p>
<p>"'And he bagged one,' says John Tom, 'and 'twas not with a gun,
and he never had on a velveteen suit of clothes in his life.' And
then I began to catch his smoke.</p>
<p>"'I know it,' says I. 'And I'll bet you his pictures are on
valentines, and fool men are his game, red and white.'</p>
<p>"'You win on the red,' says John Tom, calm. 'Jeff, for how many
ponies do you think I could buy Mrs. Conyers?'</p>
<p>"'Scandalous talk!' I replies. ''Tis not a paleface custom.'  John
Tom laughs loud and bites into a cigar. 'No,' he answers; ''tis
the savage equivalent for the dollars of the white man's marriage
settlement. Oh, I know. There's an eternal wall between the races.
If I could do it, Jeff, I'd put a torch to every white college
that a redman has ever set foot inside. Why don't you leave us
alone,' he says, 'to our own ghost-dances and dog-feasts, and our
dingy squaws to cook our grasshopper soup and darn our moccasins?'</p>
<p>"'Now, you sure don't mean disrespect to the perennial blossom
entitled education?' says I, scandalized, 'because I wear it in
the bosom of my own intellectual shirt-waist. I've had education,'
says I, 'and never took any harm from it.'</p>
<p>"'You lasso us,' goes on Little Bear, not noticing my prose
insertions, 'and teach us what is beautiful in literature and in
life, and how to appreciate what is fine in men and women. What
have you done to me?' says he. 'You've made me a Cherokee Moses.
You've taught me to hate the wigwams and love the white man's
ways. I can look over into the promised land and see Mrs. Conyers,
but my place is—on the reservation.'</p>
<p>"Little Bear stands up in his chief's dress, and laughs again.
'But, white man Jeff,' he goes on, 'the paleface provides a
recourse. 'Tis a temporary one, but it gives a respite and the
name of it is whiskey.' And straight off he walks up the path to
town again. 'Now,' says I in my mind, 'may the Manitou move him to
do only bailable things this night!' For I perceive that John Tom
is about to avail himself of the white man's solace.</p>
<p>"Maybe it was 10:30, as I sat smoking, when I hear pit-a-pats on
the path, and here comes Mrs. Conyers running, her hair twisted up
any way, and a look on her face that says burglars and mice and
the flour's-all-out rolled in one. 'Oh, Mr. Peters,' she calls
out, as they will, 'oh, oh!' I made a quick think, and I spoke the
gist of it out loud. 'Now,' says I, 'we've been brothers, me and
that Indian, but I'll make a good one of him in two minutes if—'</p>
<p>"'No, no,' she says, wild and cracking her knuckles, 'I haven't
seen Mr. Little Bear. 'Tis my—husband. He's stolen my boy. Oh,'
she says, 'just when I had him back in my arms again! That
heartless villain! Every bitterness life knows,' she says, 'he's
made me drink. My poor little lamb, that ought to be warm in his
bed, carried of by that fiend!'</p>
<p>"'How did all this happen?' I ask. 'Let's have the facts.'</p>
<p>"'I was fixing his bed,' she explains, 'and Roy was playing on the
hotel porch and he drives up to the steps. I heard Roy scream, and
ran out. My husband had him in the buggy then. I begged him for my
child. This is what he gave me.' She turns her face to the light.
There is a crimson streak running across her cheek and mouth. 'He
did that with his whip,' she says.</p>
<p>"'Come back to the hotel,' says I, 'and we'll see what can be
done.'</p>
<p>"On the way she tells me some of the wherefores. When he slashed
her with the whip he told her he found out she was coming for the
kid, and he was on the same train. Mrs. Conyers had been living
with her brother, and they'd watched the boy always, as her
husband had tried to steal him before. I judge that man was worse
than a street railway promoter. It seems he had spent her money
and slugged her and killed her canary bird, and told it around
that she had cold feet.</p>
<p>"At the hotel we found a mass meeting of five infuriated citizens
chewing tobacco and denouncing the outrage. Most of the town was
asleep by ten o'clock. I talks the lady some quiet, and tells her
I will take the one o'clock train for the next town, forty miles
east, for it is likely that the esteemed Mr. Conyers will drive
there to take the cars. 'I don't know,' I tells her, 'but what he
has legal rights; but if I find him I can give him an illegal left
in the eye, and tie him up for a day or two, anyhow, on a
disturbal of the peace proposition.'</p>
<p>"Mrs. Conyers goes inside and cries with the landlord's wife, who
is fixing some catnip tea that will make everything all right for
the poor dear. The landlord comes out on the porch, thumbing his
one suspender, and says to me:</p>
<p>"'Ain't had so much excitements in town since Bedford Steegall's
wife swallered a spring lizard. I seen him through the winder hit
her with the buggy whip, and everything. What's that suit of
clothes cost you you got on? 'Pears like we'd have some rain,
don't it? Say, doc, that Indian of yorn's on a kind of a whizz
to-night, ain't he? He comes along just before you did, and I told
him about this here occurrence. He gives a cur'us kind of a hoot,
and trotted off. I guess our constable 'll have him in the lock-up
'fore morning.'</p>
<p>"I thought I'd sit on the porch and wait for the one o'clock
train. I wasn't feeling saturated with mirth. Here was John Tom on
one of his sprees, and this kidnapping business losing sleep for
me. But then, I'm always having trouble with other people's
troubles. Every few minutes Mrs. Conyers would come out on the
porch and look down the road the way the buggy went, like she
expected to see that kid coming back on a white pony with a red
apple in his hand. Now, wasn't that like a woman? And that brings
up cats. 'I saw a mouse go in this hole,' says Mrs. Cat; 'you can
go prize up a plank over there if you like; I'll watch this hole.'</p>
<p>"About a quarter to one o'clock the lady comes out again,
restless, crying easy, as females do for their own amusement, and
she looks down that road again and listens. 'Now, ma'am,' says I,
'there's no use watching cold wheel-tracks. By this time they're
halfway to—' 'Hush,' she says, holding up her hand. And I do hear
something coming 'flip-flap' in the dark; and then there is the
awfulest war-whoop ever heard outside of Madison Square Garden at
a Buffalo Bill matinée. And up the steps and on to the
porch jumps the disrespectable Indian.
The lamp in the hall shines on him, and
I fail to recognize Mr. J. T. Little Bear, alumnus of the class of
'91. What I see is a Cherokee brave, and the warpath is what he
has been travelling. Firewater and other things have got him
going. His buckskin is hanging in strings, and his feathers are
mixed up like a frizzly hen's. The dust of miles is on his
moccasins, and the light in his eye is the kind the aborigines
wear. But in his arms he brings that kid, his eyes half closed,
with his little shoes dangling and one hand fast around the
Indian's collar.</p>
<p>"'Pappoose!' says John Tom, and I notice that the flowers of the
white man's syntax have left his tongue. He is the original
proposition in bear's claws and copper color. 'Me bring,' says he,
and he lays the kid in his mother's arms. 'Run fifteen mile,' says
John Tom—'Ugh! Catch white man. Bring pappoose.'</p>
<p>"The little woman is in extremities of gladness. She must wake up
that stir-up trouble youngster and hug him and make proclamation
that he is his mamma's own precious treasure. I was about to ask
questions, but I looked at Mr. Little Bear, and my eye caught the
sight of something in his belt. 'Now go to bed, ma'am,' says I,
'and this gadabout youngster likewise, for there's no more danger,
and the kidnapping business is not what it was earlier in the
night.'</p>
<p>"I inveigled John Tom down to camp quick, and when he tumbled over
asleep I got that thing out of his belt and disposed of it where
the eye of education can't see it. For even the football colleges
disapprove of the art of scalp-taking in their curriculums.</p>
<p>"It is ten o'clock next day when John Tom wakes up and looks
around. I am glad to see the nineteenth century in his eyes again.</p>
<p>"'What was it, Jeff?' he asks.</p>
<p>"'Heap firewater,' says I.</p>
<p>"John Tom frowns, and thinks a little. 'Combined,' says he
directly, 'with the interesting little physiological shake-up
known as reversion to type. I remember now. Have they gone yet?'</p>
<p>"'On the 7:30 train,' I answers.</p>
<p>"'Ugh!' says John Tom; 'better so. Paleface, bring big Chief
Wish-Heap-Dough a little bromo-seltzer, and then he'll take up the
redman's burden again.'"</p>
<h2>HELPING THE OTHER FELLOW</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Originally published in <i>Munsey's
Magazine</i>, December, 1908.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<div class="center">
<p class="noindent"><i>"But can thim that helps others help
thimselves!"<span class="ind10">—Mulvaney.</span></i></p>
</div>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>This is the story that William Trotter told me on the beach at
Aguas Frescas while I waited for the gig of the captain of the
fruit steamer <i>Andador</i> which was to take me abroad. Reluctantly
I was leaving the Land of Always Afternoon. William was remaining,
and he favored me with a condensed oral autobiography as we sat on
the sands in the shade cast by the Bodega Nacional.</p>
<p>As usual, I became aware that the Man from Bombay had already
written the story; but as he had compressed it to an eight-word
sentence, I have become an expansionist, and have quoted his
phrase above, with apologies to him and best regards to
<i>Terence</i>.</p>
<h3>II</h3>
<p>"Don't you ever have a desire to go back to the land of derby hats
and starched collars?" I asked him. "You seem to be a handy man
and a man of action," I continued, "and I am sure I could find you
a comfortable job somewhere in the States."</p>
<p>Ragged, shiftless, barefooted, a confirmed eater of the  lotos,
William Trotter had pleased me much, and I hated to see him
gobbled up by the tropics.</p>
<p>"I've no doubt you could," he said, idly splitting the bark from a
section of sugar-cane. "I've no doubt you could do much for me. If
every man could do as much for himself as he can for others, every
country in the world would be holding millenniums instead of
centennials."</p>
<p>There seemed to be pabulum in W. T.'s words. And then another idea
came to me.</p>
<p>I had a brother in Chicopee Falls who owned manufactories—cotton,
or sugar, or A. A. sheetings, or something in the commercial line.
He was vulgarly rich, and therefore reverenced art. The artistic
temperament of the family was monopolized at my birth. I knew that
Brother James would honor my slightest wish. I would demand from
him a position in cotton, sugar, or sheetings for William
Trotter—something, say, at two hundred a month or thereabouts. I
confided my beliefs and made my large propositions to William. He
had pleased me much, and he was ragged.</p>
<p>While we were talking, there was a sound of firing guns—four or
five, rattlingly, as if by a squad. The cheerful noise came from
the direction of the cuartel, which is a kind of makeshift
barracks for the soldiers of the republic.</p>
<p>"Hear that?" said William Trotter. "Let me tell you about it.</p>
<p>"A year ago I landed on this coast with one solitary dollar. I
have the same sum in my pocket to-day. I was second cook on a
tramp fruiter; and they marooned me here early one morning,
without benefit of clergy, just because I poulticed the face of
the first mate with cheese omelette at dinner. The fellow had
kicked because I'd put horseradish in it instead of cheese.</p>
<p>"When they threw me out of the yawl into three feet of surf, I
waded ashore and sat down under a palm-tree. By and by a
fine-looking white man with a red face and white clothes, genteel
as possible, but somewhat under the influence, came and sat down
beside me.</p>
<p>"I had noticed there was a kind of a village back of the beach,
and enough scenery to outfit a dozen moving-picture shows. But I
thought, of course, it was a cannibal suburb, and I was wondering
whether I was to be served with carrots or mushrooms. And, as I
say, this dressed-up man sits beside me, and we become friends in
the space of a minute or two. For an hour we talked, and he told
me all about it.</p>
<p>"It seems that he was a man of parts, conscientiousness, and
plausibility, besides being educated and a wreck to his appetites.
He told me all about it. Colleges had turned him out, and
distilleries had taken him in. Did I tell you his name? It was
Clifford Wainwright. I didn't exactly catch the cause of his being
cast away on that particular stretch of South America; but I
reckon it was his own business. I asked him if he'd ever been
second cook on a tramp fruiter, and he said no; so that concluded
my line of surmises. But he talked like the encyclopedia from
'A–Berlin' to 'Trilo–Zyria.' And he carried a
watch—a silver arrangement with works, and up to date
within twenty-four hours, anyhow.</p>
<p>"'I'm pleased to have met you,' says Wainwright. 'I'm a devotee to
the great joss Booze; but my ruminating facilities are
unrepaired,' says he—or words to that effect. 'And I hate,' says
he, 'to see fools trying to run the world.'</p>
<p>"'I never touch a drop,' says I, 'and there are many kinds of
fools; and the world runs on its own apex, according to science,
with no meddling from me.'</p>
<p>"'I was referring,' says he, 'to the president of this republic.
His country is in a desperate condition. Its treasury is empty,
it's on the verge of war with Nicamala, and if it wasn't for the
hot weather the people would be starting revolutions in every
town. Here is a nation,' goes on Wainwright, 'on the brink of
destruction. A man of intelligence could rescue it from its
impending doom in one day by issuing the necessary edicts and
orders. President Gomez knows nothing of statesmanship or policy.
Do you know Adam Smith?'</p>
<p>"'Lemme see,' says I. 'There was a one-eared man named Smith in
Fort Worth, Texas, but I think his first name was—'</p>
<p>"'I am referring to the political economist,' says Wainwright.</p>
<p>"'S'mother Smith, then,' says I. 'The one I speak of never was
arrested.'</p>
<p>"So Wainwright boils some more with indignation at the
insensibility of people who are not corpulent to fill public
positions; and then he tells me he is going out to the president's
summer palace, which is four miles from Aguas Frescas, to instruct
him in the art of running steam-heated republics.</p>
<p>"'Come along with me, Trotter,' says he, 'and I'll show you what
brains can do.'</p>
<p>"'Anything in it?' I asks.</p>
<p>"'The satisfaction,' says he, 'of redeeming a country of two
hundred thousand population from ruin back to prosperity and
peace.'</p>
<p>"'Great,' says I. 'I'll go with you. I'd prefer to eat a live
broiled lobster just now; but give me liberty as second choice if
I can't be in at the death.'</p>
<p>"Wainwright and me permeates through the town, and he halts at a
rum-dispensary.</p>
<p>"'Have you any money?' he asks.</p>
<p>"'I have,' says I, fishing out my silver dollar. 'I always go
about with adequate sums of money.'</p>
<p>"'Then we'll drink,' says Wainwright.</p>
<p>"'Not me,' says I. 'Not any demon rum or any of its ramifications
for mine. It's one of my non-weaknesses.'</p>
<p>"'It's my failing,' says he. 'What's your particular soft point?'</p>
<p>"'Industry,' says I, promptly. 'I'm hard-working, diligent,
industrious, and energetic.'</p>
<p>"'My dear Mr. Trotter,' says he, 'surely I've known you long
enough to tell you you are a liar. Every man must have his own
particular weakness, and his own particular strength in other
things. Now, you will buy me a drink of rum, and we will call on
President Gomez.'"</p>
<h3>III</h3>
<p>"Well, sir," Trotter went on, "we walks the four miles out,
through a virgin conservatory of palms and ferns and other
roof-garden products, to the president's summer White House. It
was blue, and reminded you of what you see on the stage in the
third act, which they describe as 'same as the first' on the
programs.</p>
<p>"There was more than fifty people waiting outside the iron fence
that surrounded the house and grounds. There was generals and
agitators and épergnes in gold-laced uniforms, and citizens
in diamonds and Panama hats—all waiting to get an audience with
the Royal Five-Card Draw. And in a kind of a summer-house in front
of the mansion we could see a burnt-sienna man eating breakfast
out of gold dishes and taking his time. I judged that the crowd
outside had come out for their morning orders and requests, and
was afraid to intrude.</p>
<p>"But C. Wainwright wasn't. The gate was open, and he walked inside
and up to the president's table as confident as a man who knows
the head waiter in a fifteen-cent restaurant. And I went with him,
because I had only seventy-five cents, and there was nothing else
to do.</p>
<p>"The Gomez man rises from his chair, and looks, colored man as he
was, like he was about to call out for corporal of the guard, post
number one. But Wainwright says some phrases to him in a
peculiarly lubricating manner; and the first thing you know we was
all three of us seated at the table, with coffee and rolls and
iguana cutlets coming as fast as about ninety peons could rustle
'em.</p>
<p>"And then Wainwright begins to talk; but the president interrupts
him.</p>
<p>"'You Yankees,' says he, polite, 'assuredly take the cake for
assurance, I assure you'—or words to that effect. He spoke
English better than you or me. 'You've had a long walk,' says he,
'but it's nicer in the cool morning to walk than to ride. May I
suggest some refreshments?' says he.</p>
<p>"'Rum,' says Wainwright.</p>
<p>"'Gimme a cigar,' says I.</p>
<p>"Well, sir, the two talked an hour, keeping the generals and
equities all in their good uniforms waiting outside the fence. And
while I smoked, silent, I listened to Clifford Wainwright making a
solid republic out of the wreck of one. I didn't follow his
arguments with any special collocation of international
intelligibility; but he had Mr. Gomez's attention glued and
riveted. He takes out a pencil and marks the white linen
tablecloth all over with figures and estimates and deductions. He
speaks more or less disrespectfully of import and export duties
and custom-house receipts and taxes and treaties and budgets and
concessions and such truck that politics and government require;
and when he gets through the Gomez man hops up and shakes his hand
and says he's saved the country and the people.</p>
<p>"'You shall be rewarded,' says the president.</p>
<p>"'Might I suggest another—rum?' says Wainwright.</p>
<p>"'Cigar for me—darker brand,' says I.</p>
<p>"Well, sir, the president sent me and Wainwright back to the town
in a victoria hitched to two flea-bitten selling-platers—but the
best the country afforded.</p>
<p>"I found out afterward that Wainwright was a regular
beachcomber—the smartest man on the whole coast, but kept down by
rum. I liked him.</p>
<p>"One day I inveigled him into a walk out a couple of miles from
the village, where there was an old grass hut on the bank of a
little river. While he was sitting on the grass, talking beautiful
of the wisdom of the world that he had learned in books, I took
hold of him easy and tied his hands and feet together with leather
thongs that I had in my pocket.</p>
<p>"'Lie still,' says I, 'and meditate on the exigencies and
irregularities of life till I get back.'</p>
<p>"I went to a shack in Aguas Frescas where a mighty wise girl named
Timotea Carrizo lived with her mother. The girl was just about as
nice as you ever saw. In the States she would have been called a
brunette; but she was better than a brunette—I should say she was
what you might term an écru shade. I knew her pretty well. I
told her about my friend Wainwright. She gave me a double handful of
bark—calisaya, I think it was—and some more herbs that I was to
mix with it, and told me what to do. I was to make tea of it and
give it to him, and keep him from rum for a certain time. And for
two weeks I did it. You know, I liked Wainwright. Both of us was
broke; but Timotea sent us goat-meat and plantains and tortillas
every day; and at last I got the curse of drink lifted from
Clifford Wainwright. He lost his taste for it. And in the cool of
the evening him and me would sit on the roof of Timotea's mother's
hut, eating harmless truck like coffee and rice and stewed crabs,
and playing the accordion.</p>
<p>"About that time President Gomez found out that the advice of C.
Wainwright was the stuff he had been looking for. The country was
pulling out of debt, and the treasury had enough boodle in it for
him to amuse himself occasionally with the night-latch. The people
were beginning to take their two-hour siestas again every
day—which was the surest sign of prosperity.</p>
<p>"So down from the regular capital he sends for Clifford Wainwright
and makes him his private secretary at twenty thousand Peru
dollars a year. Yes, sir—so much. Wainwright was on the
water-wagon—thanks to me and Timotea—and he was soon in clover
with the government gang. Don't forget what done it—calisaya bark
with them other herbs mixed—make a tea of it, and give a cupful
every two hours. Try it yourself. It takes away the desire.</p>
<p>"As I said, a man can do a lot more for another party than he can
for himself. Wainwright, with his brains, got a whole country out
of trouble and on its feet; but what could he do for himself? And
without any special brains, but with some nerve and common sense,
I put him on his feet because I never had the weakness that he
did—nothing but a cigar for mine, thanks. And—"</p>
<p>Trotter paused. I looked at his tattered clothes and at his deeply
sunburnt, hard, thoughtful face.</p>
<p>"Didn't Cartright ever offer to do anything for you?" I asked.</p>
<p>"Wainwright," corrected Trotter. "Yes, he offered me some pretty
good jobs. But I'd have had to leave Aguas Frescas; so I didn't
take any of 'em up. Say, I didn't tell you much about that
girl—Timotea. We rather hit it off together. She was as good as
you find 'em anywhere—Spanish, mostly, with just a twist of
lemon-peel on top. What if they did live in a grass hut and went
bare-armed?</p>
<p>"A month ago," went on Trotter, "she went away. I don't know where
to. But—"</p>
<p>"You'd better come back to the States," I insisted. "I can promise
you positively that my brother will give you a position in cotton,
sugar, or sheetings—I am not certain which."</p>
<p>"I think she went back with her mother," said Trotter, "to the
village in the mountains that they come from. Tell me, what would
this job you speak of pay?"</p>
<p>"Why," said I, hesitating over commerce, "I should say fifty or a
hundred dollars a month—maybe two hundred."</p>
<p>"Ain't it funny," said Trotter, digging his toes in the sand,
"what a chump a man is when it comes to paddling his own canoe? I
don't know. Of course, I'm not making a living here. I'm on the
bum. But—well, I wish you could have seen that Timotea. Every man
has his own weak spot."</p>
<p>The gig from the <i>Andador</i> was coming ashore to take out
the captain, purser, and myself, the lone passenger.</p>
<p>"I'll guarantee," said I confidently, "that my brother will pay
you seventy-five dollars a month."</p>
<p>"All right, then," said William Trotter. "I'll—"</p>
<p>But a soft voice called across the blazing sands. A girl, faintly
lemon-tinted, stood in the Calle Real and called. She was
bare-armed—but what of that?</p>
<p>"It's her!" said William Trotter, looking. "She's come back! I'm
obliged; but I can't take the job. Thanks, just the same. Ain't it
funny how we can't do nothing for ourselves, but we can do wonders
for the other fellow? You was about to get me with your financial
proposition; but we've all got our weak points. Timotea's mine.
And, say!" Trotter had turned to leave, but he retraced the step
or two that he had taken. "I like to have left you without saying
good-bye," said he. "It kind of rattles you when they go away
unexpected for a month and come back the same way. Shake hands. So
long! Say, do you remember them gunshots we heard a while ago up
at the cuartel? Well, I knew what they was, but I didn't mention
it. It was Clifford Wainwright being shot by a squad of soldiers
against a stone wall for giving away secrets of state to that
Nicamala republic. Oh, yes, it was rum that did it. He backslided
and got his. I guess we all have our weak points, and can't do
much toward helping ourselves. Mine's waiting for me. I'd have
liked to have that job with your brother, but—we've all got our
weak points. So long!"</p>
<h3>IV</h3>
<p>A big black Carib carried me on his back through the surf to the
ship's boat. On the way the purser handed me a letter that he had
brought for me at the last moment from the post-office in Aguas
Frescas. It was from my brother. He requested me to meet him at
the St. Charles Hotel in New Orleans and accept a position with
his house—in either cotton, sugar, or sheetings, and with five
thousand dollars a year as my salary.</p>
<p>When I arrived at the Crescent City I hurried away—far away from
the St. Charles to a dim <i>chambre garnie</i> in Bienville Street.
And there, looking down from my attic window from time to time at
the old, yellow, absinthe house across the street, I wrote this
story to buy my bread and butter.</p>
<p>"Can thim that helps others help thimselves?"</p>
<h2>THE MARIONETTES</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Originally published in <i>The Black
Cat</i> for April, 1902, The Short Story Publishing
Co.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>The policeman was standing at the corner of Twenty-fourth Street
and a prodigiously dark alley near where the elevated railroad
crosses the street. The time was two o'clock in the morning; the
outlook a stretch of cold, drizzling, unsociable blackness until
the dawn.</p>
<p>A man, wearing a long overcoat, with his hat tilted down in front,
and carrying something in one hand, walked softly but rapidly out
of the black alley. The policeman accosted him civilly, but with
the assured air that is linked with conscious authority. The hour,
the alley's musty reputation, the pedestrian's haste, the burden
he carried—these easily combined into the "suspicious
circumstances" that required illumination at the officer's hands.</p>
<p>The "suspect" halted readily and tilted back his hat, exposing, in
the flicker of the electric lights, an emotionless, smooth
countenance with a rather long nose and steady dark eyes.
Thrusting his gloved hand into a side pocket of his overcoat, he
drew out a card and handed it to the policeman. Holding it to
catch the uncertain light, the officer read the name "Charles
Spencer James, M. D." The street and number of the address were of
a neighborhood so solid and respectable as to subdue even
curiosity. The policeman's downward glance at the article carried
in the doctor's hand—a handsome medicine case of black leather,
with small silver mountings—further endorsed the guarantee of the
card.</p>
<p>"All right, doctor," said the officer, stepping aside, with an air
of bulky affability. "Orders are to be extra careful. Good many
burglars and hold-ups lately. Bad night to be out. Not so cold,
but—clammy."</p>
<p>With a formal inclination of his head, and a word or two
corroborative of the officer's estimate of the weather, Doctor
James continued his somewhat rapid progress. Three times that
night had a patrolman accepted his professional card and the sight
of his paragon of a medicine case as vouchers for his honesty of
person and purpose. Had any one of those officers seen fit, on the
morrow, to test the evidence of that card he would have found it
borne out by the doctor's name on a handsome doorplate, his
presence, calm and well dressed, in his well-equipped
office—provided it were not too early, Doctor James being a late
riser—and the testimony of the neighborhood to his good
citizenship, his devotion to his family, and his success as a
practitioner the two years he had lived among them.</p>
<p>Therefore, it would have much surprised any one of those zealous
guardians of the peace could they have taken a peep into that
immaculate medicine case. Upon opening it, the first article to be
seen would have been an elegant set of the latest conceived tools
used by the "box man," as the ingenious safe burglar now
denominates himself. Specially designed and constructed were the
implements—the short but powerful "jimmy," the collection of
curiously fashioned keys, the blued drills and punches of the
finest temper—capable of eating their way into chilled steel as a
mouse eats into a cheese, and the clamps that fasten like a leech
to the polished door of a safe and pull out the combination knob
as a dentist extracts a tooth. In a little pouch in the inner side
of the "medicine" case was a four-ounce vial of nitroglycerine,
now half empty. Underneath the tools was a mass of crumpled
banknotes and a few handfuls of gold coin, the money, altogether,
amounting to eight hundred and thirty dollars.</p>
<p>To a very limited circle of friends Doctor James was known as "The
Swell 'Greek.'" Half of the mysterious term was a tribute to his
cool and gentlemanlike manners; the other half denoted, in the
argot of the brotherhood, the leader, the planner, the one who, by
the power and prestige of his address and position, secured the
information upon which they based their plans and desperate
enterprises.</p>
<p>Of this elect circle the other members were Skitsie Morgan and Gum
Decker, expert "box men," and Leopold Pretzfelder, a jeweller
downtown, who manipulated the "sparklers" and other ornaments
collected by the working trio. All good and loyal men, as
loose-tongued as Memnon and as fickle as the North Star.</p>
<p>That night's work had not been considered by the firm to have
yielded more than a moderate repayal for their pains. An old-style
two-story side-bolt safe in the dingy office of a very wealthy
old-style dry-goods firm on a Saturday night should have excreted
more than twenty-five hundred dollars. But that was all they
found, and they had divided it, the three of them, into equal
shares upon the spot, as was their custom. Ten or twelve thousand
was what they expected. But one of the proprietors had proved to
be just a trifle too old-style. Just after dark he had carried
home in a shirt box most of the funds on hand.</p>
<p>Doctor James proceeded up Twenty-fourth Street, which was, to all
appearance, depopulated. Even the theatrical folk, who affect this
district as a place of residence, were long since abed. The
drizzle had accumulated upon the street; puddles of it among the
stones received the fire of the arc lights, and returned it,
shattered into a myriad liquid spangles. A captious wind,
shower-soaked and chilling, coughed from the laryngeal flues
between the houses.</p>
<p>As the practitioner's foot struck even with the corner of a tall
brick residence of more pretension than its fellows the front door
popped open, and a bawling negress clattered down the steps to the
pavement. Some medley of words came from her mouth, addressed,
like as not, to herself—the recourse of her race when alone and
beset by evil. She looked to be one of that old vassal class of
the South—voluble, familiar, loyal, irrepressible; her person
pictured it—fat, neat, aproned, kerchiefed.</p>
<p>This sudden apparition, spewed from the silent house, reached the
bottom of the steps as Doctor James came opposite. Her brain
transferring its energies from sound to sight, she ceased her
clamor and fixed her pop-eyes upon the case the doctor carried.</p>
<p>"Bress de Lawd!" was the benison the sight drew from her. "Is you
a doctor, suh?"</p>
<p>"Yes, I am a physician," said Doctor James, pausing.</p>
<p>"Den fo' God's sake come and see Mister Chandler, suh. He done had
a fit or sump'n. He layin' jist like he wuz dead. Miss Amy sont me
to git a doctor. Lawd knows whar old Cindy'd a skeared one up
from, if you, suh, hadn't come along. Ef old Mars' knowed one
ten-hundredth part of dese doin's dey'd be shootin' gwine on,
suh—pistol shootin'—leb'm feet marked off on de ground, and
ev'ybody a-duellin'. And dat po' lamb, Miss Amy—"</p>
<p>"Lead the way," said Doctor James, setting his foot upon the step,
"if you want me as a doctor. As an auditor I'm not open to
engagements."</p>
<p>The negress preceded him into the house and up a flight of thickly
carpeted stairs. Twice they came to dimly lighted branching
hallways. At the second one the now panting conductress turned
down a hall, stopping at a door and opening it.</p>
<p>"I done brought de doctor, Miss Amy."</p>
<p>Doctor James entered the room, and bowed slightly to a young lady
standing by the side of a bed. He set his medicine case upon a
chair, removed his overcoat, throwing it over the case and the
back of the chair, and advanced with quiet self-possession to the
bedside.</p>
<p>There lay a man, sprawling as he had fallen—a man dressed richly
in the prevailing mode, with only his shoe removed; lying relaxed,
and as still as the dead.</p>
<p>There emanated from Doctor James an aura of calm force and reserve
strength that was as manna in the desert to the weak and desolate
among his patrons. Always had women, especially, been attracted by
something in his sick-room manner. It was not the indulgent
suavity of the fashionable healer, but a manner of poise, of
sureness, of ability to overcome fate, of deference and protection
and devotion. There was an exploring magnetism in his steadfast,
luminous brown eves; a latent authority in the impassive, even
priestly, tranquillity of his smooth countenance that outwardly
fitted him for the part of confidant and consoler. Sometimes, at
his first professional visit, women would tell him where they hid
their diamonds at night from the burglars.</p>
<p>With the ease of much practice, Doctor James's unroving eyes
estimated the order and quality of the room's furnishings. The
appointments were rich and costly. The same glance had secured
cognizance of the lady's appearance. She was small and scarcely
past twenty. Her face possessed the title to a winsome prettiness,
now obscured by (you would say) rather a fixed melancholy than the
more violent imprint of a sudden sorrow. Upon her forehead, above
one eyebrow, was a livid bruise, suffered, the physician's eye
told him, within the past six hours.</p>
<p>Doctor James's fingers went to the man's wrist. His almost vocal
eyes questioned the lady.</p>
<p>"I am Mrs. Chandler," she responded, speaking with the plaintive
Southern slur and intonation. "My husband was taken suddenly ill
about ten minutes before you came. He has had attacks of heart
trouble before—some of them were very bad." His clothed state and
the late hour seemed to prompt her to further explanation. "He had
been out late; to—a supper, I believe."</p>
<p>Doctor James now turned his attention to his patient. In whichever
of his "professions" he happened to be engaged he was wont to
honor the "case" or the "job" with his whole interest.</p>
<p>The sick man appeared to be about thirty. His countenance bore a
look of boldness and dissipation, but was not without a symmetry
of feature and the fine lines drawn by a taste and indulgence in
humor that gave the redeeming touch. There was an odor of spilled
wine about his clothes.</p>
<p>The physician laid back his outer garments, and then, with a
penknife, slit the shirt-front from collar to waist. The obstacles
cleared, he laid his ear to the heart and listened intently.</p>
<p>"Mitral regurgitation?" he said, softly, when he rose. The words
ended with the rising inflection of uncertainty. Again he listened
long; and this time he said, "Mitral insufficiency," with the
accent of an assured diagnosis.</p>
<p>"Madam," he began, in the reassuring tones that had so often
allayed anxiety, "there is a probability—" As he slowly turned
his head to face the lady, he saw her fall, white and swooning,
into the arms of the old negress.</p>
<p>"Po' lamb! po' lamb! Has dey done killed Aunt Cindy's own blessed
child? May de Lawd' stroy wid his wrath dem what stole her away;
what break dat angel heart; what left—"</p>
<p>"Lift her feet," said Doctor James, assisting to support the
drooping form. "Where is her room? She must be put to bed."</p>
<p>"In here, suh." The woman nodded her kerchiefed head toward a
door. "Dat's Miss Amy's room."</p>
<p>They carried her in there, and laid her on the bed. Her pulse was
faint, but regular. She passed from the swoon, without recovering
consciousness, into a profound slumber.</p>
<p>"She is quite exhausted," said the physician. "Sleep is a good
remedy. When she wakes, give her a toddy—with an egg in it, if
she can take it. How did she get that bruise upon her forehead?"</p>
<p>"She done got a lick there, suh. De po' lamb fell—No, suh"—the
old woman's racial mutability swept her into a sudden flare of
indignation—"old Cindy ain't gwineter lie for dat debble. He
done it, suh. May de Lawd wither de hand what—dar now! Cindy
promise her sweet lamb she ain't gwine tell. Miss Amy got hurt,
suh, on de head."</p>
<p>Doctor James stepped to a stand where a handsome lamp burned, and
turned the flame low.</p>
<p>"Stay here with your mistress," he ordered, "and keep quiet so she
will sleep. If she wakes, give her the toddy. If she grows any
weaker, let me know. There is something strange about it."</p>
<p>"Dar's mo' strange t'ings dan dat 'round here," began the negress,
but the physician hushed her in a seldom employed peremptory,
concentrated voice with which he had often allayed hysteria
itself. He returned to the other room, closing the door softly
behind him. The man on the bed had not moved, but his eyes were
open. His lips seemed to form words. Doctor James bent his head to
listen. "The money! the money!" was what they were whispering.</p>
<p>"Can you understand what I say?" asked the doctor, speaking low,
but distinctly.</p>
<p>The head nodded slightly.</p>
<p>"I am a physician, sent for by your wife. You are Mr. Chandler, I
am told. You are quite ill. You must not excite or distress
yourself at all."</p>
<p>The patient's eyes seemed to beckon to him. The doctor stooped to
catch the same faint words.</p>
<p>"The money—the twenty thousand dollars."</p>
<p>"Where is this money?—in the bank?"</p>
<p>The eyes expressed a negative. "Tell her"—the whisper was growing
fainter—"the twenty thousand dollars—her money"—his eyes
wandered about the room.</p>
<p>"You have placed this money somewhere?"—Doctor James's voice was
toiling like a siren's to conjure the secret from the man's
failing intelligence—"Is it in this room?"</p>
<p>He thought he saw a fluttering assent in the dimming eyes. The
pulse under his fingers was as fine and small as a silk thread.</p>
<p>There arose in Doctor James's brain and heart the instincts of his
other profession. Promptly, as he acted in everything, he decided
to learn the whereabouts of this money, and at the calculated and
certain cost of a human life.</p>
<p>Drawing from his pocket a little pad of prescription blanks, he
scribbled upon one of them a formula suited, according to the best
practice, to the needs of the sufferer. Going to the door of the
inner room, he softly called the old woman, gave her the
prescription, and bade her take it to some drug store and fetch
the medicine.</p>
<p>When she had gone, muttering to herself, the doctor stepped to the
bedside of the lady. She still slept soundly; her pulse was a
little stronger; her forehead was cool, save where the
inflammation of the bruise extended, and a slight moisture covered
it. Unless disturbed, she would yet sleep for hours. He found the
key in the door, and locked it after him when he returned.</p>
<p>Doctor James looked at his watch. He could call half an hour his
own, since before that time the old woman could scarcely return
from her mission. Then he sought and found water in a pitcher and
a glass tumbler. Opening his medicine case he took out the vial
containing the nitroglycerine—"the oil," as his brethren of the
brace-and-bit term it.</p>
<p>One drop of the faint yellow, thickish liquid he let fall in the
tumbler. He took out his silver hypodermic syringe case, and
screwed the needle into its place, Carefully measuring each
modicum of water in the graduated glass barrel of the syringe, he
diluted the one drop with nearly half a tumbler of water.</p>
<p>Two hours earlier that night Doctor James had, with that syringe,
injected the undiluted liquid into a hole drilled in the lock of a
safe, and had destroyed, with one dull explosion, the machinery
that controlled the movement of the bolts. He now purposed, with
the same means, to shiver the prime machinery of a human being—to
rend its heart—and each shock was for the sake of the money to
follow.</p>
<p>The same means, but in a different guise. Whereas, that was the
giant in its rude, primary dynamic strength, this was the
courtier, whose no less deadly arms were concealed by velvet and
lace. For the liquid in the tumbler and in the syringe that the
physician carefully filled was now a solution of glonoin, the most
powerful heart stimulant known to medical science. Two ounces had
riven the solid door of the iron safe; with one fiftieth part of a
minim he was now about to still forever the intricate mechanism of
a human life.</p>
<p>But not immediately. It was not so intended. First there would be
a quick increase of vitality; a powerful impetus given to every
organ and faculty. The heart would respond bravely to the fatal
spur; the blood in the veins return more rapidly to its source.</p>
<p>But, as Doctor James well knew, over-stimulation in this form of
heart disease means death, as sure as by a rifle shot. When the
clogged arteries should suffer congestion from the increased flow
of blood pumped into them by the power of the burglar's "oil,"
they would rapidly become "no thoroughfare," and the fountain of
life would cease to flow.</p>
<p>The physician bared the chest of the unconscious Chandler. Easily
and skilfully he injected, subcutaneously, the contents of the
syringe into the muscles of the region over the heart. True to his
neat habits in both professions, he next carefully dried his
needle and re-inserted the fine wire that threaded it when not in
use.</p>
<p>In three minutes Chandler opened his eyes, and spoke, in a voice
faint but audible, inquiring who attended upon him. Doctor James
again explained his presence there.</p>
<p>"Where is my wife?" asked the patient.</p>
<p>"She is asleep—from exhaustion and worry," said the doctor. "I
would not awaken her, unless—"</p>
<p>"It isn't—necessary." Chandler spoke with spaces between his
words caused by his short breath that some demon was driving too
fast. "She wouldn't—thank you to disturb her—on my—account."</p>
<p>Doctor James drew a chair to the bedside. Conversation must not be
squandered.</p>
<p>"A few minutes ago," he began, in the grave, candid tones of his
other profession, "you were trying to tell me something regarding
some money. I do not seek your confidence, but it is my duty to
advise you that anxiety and worry will work against your recovery.
If you have any communication to make about this—to relieve your
mind about this—twenty thousand dollars, I think was the amount
you mentioned—you would better do so."</p>
<p>Chandler could not turn his head, but he rolled his eyes in the
direction of the speaker.</p>
<p>"Did I—say where this—money is?"</p>
<p>"No," answered the physician. "I only inferred, from your scarcely
intelligible words, that you felt a solicitude concerning its
safety. If it is in this room—"</p>
<p>Doctor James paused. Did he only seem to perceive a flicker of
understanding, a gleam of suspicion upon the ironical features of
his patient? Had he seemed too eager? Had he said too much?
Chandler's next words restored his confidence.</p>
<p>"Where—should it be," he gasped, "but in—the safe—there?"</p>
<p>With his eyes he indicated a corner of the room, where now, for
the first time, the doctor perceived a small iron safe,
half-concealed by the trailing end of a window curtain.</p>
<p>Rising, he took the sick man's wrist. His pulse was beating in
great throbs, with ominous intervals between.</p>
<p>"Lift your arm," said Doctor James.</p>
<p>"You know—I can't move, Doctor."</p>
<p>The physician stepped swiftly to the hall door, opened it, and
listened. All was still. Without further circumvention he went to
the safe, and examined it. Of a primitive make and simple design,
it afforded little more security than protection against
light-fingered servants. To his skill it was a mere toy, a thing
of straw and paste-board. The money was as good as in his hands.
With his clamps he could draw the knob, punch the tumblers and
open the door in two minutes. Perhaps, in another way, he might
open it in one.</p>
<p>Kneeling upon the floor, he laid his ear to the combination plate,
and slowly turned the knob. As he had surmised, it was locked at
only a "day com."—upon one number. His keen ear caught the faint
warning click as the tumbler was disturbed; he used the clue—the
handle turned. He swung the door wide open.</p>
<p>The interior of the safe was bare—not even a scrap of paper
rested within the hollow iron cube.</p>
<p>Doctor James rose to his feet and walked back to the bed.</p>
<p>A thick dew had formed upon the dying man's brow, but there was a
mocking, grim smile on his lips and in his eyes.</p>
<p>"I never—saw it before," he said, painfully, "medicine
and—burglary wedded! Do you—make the—combination pay—dear
Doctor?"</p>
<p>Than that situation afforded, there was never a more rigorous test
of Doctor James's greatness. Trapped by the diabolic humor of his
victim into a position both ridiculous and unsafe, he maintained
his dignity as well as his presence of mind. Taking out his watch,
he waited for the man to die.</p>
<p>"You were—just a shade—too—anxious—about that money. But it
never was—in any danger—from you, dear Doctor. It's safe.
Perfectly safe. It's all—in the hands—of the bookmakers.
Twenty—thousand—Amy's money. I played it at the races—lost
every—cent of it. I've been a pretty bad boy, Burglar—excuse
me—Doctor, but I've been a square sport. I don't think—I ever
met—such an—eighteen-carat rascal as you are, Doctor—excuse
me—Burglar, in all my rounds. Is it contrary—to the ethics—of
your—gang, Burglar, to give a victim—excuse me—patient, a drink
of water?"</p>
<p>Doctor James brought him a drink. He could scarcely swallow it.
The reaction from the powerful drug was coming in regular,
intensifying waves. But his moribund fancy must have one more
grating fling.</p>
<p>"Gambler—drunkard—spendthrift—I've been those, but—a
doctor-burglar!"</p>
<p>The physician indulged himself to but one reply to the other's
caustic taunts. Bending low to catch Chandler's fast crystallizing
gaze, he pointed to the sleeping lady's door with a gesture so
stern and significant that the prostrate man half-lifted his head,
with his remaining strength, to see. He saw nothing; but he caught
the cold words of the doctor—the last sounds hie was to hear:</p>
<p>"I never yet—struck a woman."</p>
<p>It were vain to attempt to con such men. There is no curriculum
that can reckon with them in its ken. They
are offshoots from the types whereof men say, "He will do this,"
or "He will do that." We only know that they exist; and that we
can observe them, and tell one another of their bare performances,
as children watch and speak of the marionettes.</p>
<p>Yet it were a droll study in egoism to consider these two—one an
assassin and a robber, standing above his victim; the other baser
in his offences, if a lesser law-breaker, lying, abhorred, in the
house of the wife he had persecuted, spoiled, and smitten, one a
tiger, the other a dog-wolf—to consider each of them sickening at
the foulness of the other; and each flourishing out of the mire of
his manifest guilt his own immaculate standard—of conduct, if not
of honor.</p>
<p>The one retort of Doctor James must have struck home to the
other's remaining shreds of shame and manhood, for it proved the
<i>coup de grâce</i>. A deep blush suffused his face—an
ignominious <i>rosa mortis</i>; the respiration ceased, and, with
scarcely a tremor, Chandler expired.</p>
<p>Close following upon his last breath came the negress, bringing
the medicine. With a hand gently pressing upon the closed eyelids,
Doctor James told her of the end. Not grief, but a hereditary
rapprochement with death in the abstract, moved her to a dismal,
watery snuffling, accompanied by her usual jeremiad.</p>
<p>"Dar now! It's in de Lawd's hands. He am de jedge ob de
transgressor, and de suppo't of dem in distress. He gwine hab
suppo't us now. Cindy done paid out de last quarter fer dis bottle
of physic, and it nebber come to no use."</p>
<p>"Do I understand," asked Doctor James, "that Mrs. Chandler has no
money?"</p>
<p>"Money, suh? You know what make Miss Amy fall down and so weak?
Stahvation, sub. Nothin' to eat in dis house but some crumbly
crackers in three days. Dat angel sell her finger rings and watch
mont's ago. Dis fine house, suh, wid de red cyarpets and shiny
bureaus, it's all hired; and de man talkin' scan'lous about de
rent. Dat debble—'scuse me, Lawd—he done in Yo' hands fer
jedgment, now—he made way wid everything."</p>
<p>The physician's silence encouraged her to continue. The history
that he gleaned from Cindy's disordered monologue was an old one,
of illusion, wilfulness, disaster, cruelty and pride. Standing out
from the blurred panorama of her gabble were little clear
pictures—an ideal home in the far South; a quickly repented
marriage; an unhappy season, full of wrongs and abuse, and, of
late, an inheritance of money that promised deliverance; its
seizure and waste by the dog-wolf during a two months' absence,
and his return in the midst of a scandalous carouse. Unobtruded,
but visible between every line, ran a pure white thread through
the smudged warp of the story—the simple, all-enduring, sublime
love of the old negress, following her mistress unswervingly
through everything to the end.</p>
<p>When at last she paused, the physician spoke, asking if the house
contained whiskey or liquor of any sort. There was, the old woman
informed him, half a bottle of brandy left in the sideboard by the
dog-wolf.</p>
<p>"Prepare a toddy as I told you," said Doctor James. "Wake your
mistress; have her drink it, and tell her what has happened."</p>
<p>Some ten minutes afterward, Mrs. Chandler entered, supported by
old Cindy's arm. She appeared to be a little stronger since her
sleep and the stimulant she had taken. Doctor James had covered,
with a sheet, the form upon the bed.</p>
<p>The lady turned her mournful eyes once, with a half-frightened
look, toward it, and pressed closer to her loyal protector. Her
eyes were dry and bright. Sorrow seemed to have done its utmost
with her. The fount of tears was dried; feeling itself paralyzed.</p>
<p>Doctor James was standing near the table, his overcoat donned, his
hat and medicine case in his hand. His face was calm and
impassive—practice had inured him to the sight of human
suffering. His lambent brown eyes alone expressed a discreet
professional sympathy.</p>
<p>He spoke kindly and briefly, stating that, as the hour was late,
and assistance, no doubt, difficult to procure, he would himself
send the proper persons to attend to the necessary finalities.</p>
<p>"One matter, in conclusion," said the doctor, pointing to the safe
with its still wide-open door. "Your husband, Mrs. Chandler,
toward the end, felt that he could not live; and directed me to
open that safe, giving me the number upon which the combination is
set. In case you may need to use it, you will remember that the
number is forty-one. Turn several times to the right; then to the
left once; stop at forty-one. He would not permit me to waken you,
though he knew the end was near.</p>
<p>"In that safe he said he had placed a sum of money—not large—but
enough to enable you to carry out his last request. That was that
you should return to your old home, and, in after days, when time
shall have made it easier, forgive his many sins against you."</p>
<p>He pointed to the table, where lay an orderly pile of banknotes,
surmounted by two stacks of gold coins.</p>
<p>"The money is there—as he described it—eight hundred and thirty
dollars. I beg to leave my card with you, in case I can be of any
service later on."</p>
<p>So, he had thought of her—and kindly—at the last! So late! And
yet the lie fanned into life one last spark of tenderness where
she had thought all was turned to ashes and dust. She cried aloud
"Rob! Rob!" She turned, and, upon the ready bosom of her true
servitor, diluted her grief in relieving tears. It is well to
think, also, that in the years to follow, the murderer's falsehood
shone like a little star above the grave of love, comforting her,
and gaining the forgiveness that is good in itself, whether asked
for or no.</p>
<p>Hushed and soothed upon the dark bosom, like a child, by a
crooning, babbling sympathy, at last she raised her head—but the
doctor was gone.</p>
<h2>THE MARQUIS AND MISS SALLY</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Originally published in <i>Everybody's
Magazine</i>, June 1903.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>Without knowing it, Old Bill Bascom had the honor of being
overtaken by fate the same day with the Marquis of Borodale.</p>
<p>The Marquis lived in Regent Square, London. Old Bill lived on
Limping Doe Creek, Hardeman County, Texas. The cataclysm that
engulfed the Marquis took the form of a bursting bubble known as
the Central and South American Mahogany and Caoutchouc Monopoly.
Old Bill's Nemesis was in the no less perilous shape of a band of
civilized Indian cattle thieves from the Territory who ran off his
entire herd of four hundred head, and shot old Bill dead as he
trailed after them. To even up the consequences of the two
catastrophes, the Marquis, as soon as he found that all he
possessed would pay only fifteen shillings on the pound of his
indebtedness, shot himself.</p>
<p>Old Bill left a family of six motherless sons and daughters, who
found themselves without even a red steer left to eat, or a red
cent to buy one with.</p>
<p>The Marquis left one son, a young man, who had come to the States
and established a large and well-stocked ranch in the Panhandle of
Texas. When this young man learned the news he mounted his pony
and rode to town. There he placed everything he owned except his
horse, saddle, Winchester, and fifteen dollars in his pockets, in
the hands of his lawyers, with instructions to sell and forward
the proceeds to London to be applied upon the payment of his
father's debts. Then he mounted his pony and rode southward.</p>
<p>One day, arriving about the same time, but by different trails,
two young chaps rode up to the Diamond-Cross ranch, on the Little
Piedra, and asked for work. Both were dressed neatly and sprucely
in cowboy costume. One was a straight-set fellow, with delicate,
handsome features, short, brown hair, and smooth face, sunburned
to a golden brown. The other applicant was stouter and
broad-shouldered, with fresh, red complexion, somewhat freckled,
reddish, curling hair, and a rather plain face, made attractive by
laughing eyes and a pleasant mouth.</p>
<p>The superintendent of the Diamond-Cross was of the opinion that he
could give them work. In fact, word had reached him that morning
that the camp cook—a most important member of the outfit—had
straddled his broncho and departed, being unable to withstand the
fire of fun and practical jokes of which he was, ex officio, the
legitimate target.</p>
<p>"Can either of you cook?" asked the superintendent.</p>
<p>"I can," said the reddish-haired fellow, promptly. "I've cooked in
camp quite a lot. I'm willing to take the job until you've got
something else to offer."</p>
<p>"Now, that's the way I like to hear a man talk," said  the
superintendent, approvingly. "I'll give you a note to Saunders,
and he'll put you to work."</p>
<p>Thus the names of John Bascom and Charles Norwood were added to
the pay-roll of the Diamond-Cross. The two left for the round-up
camp immediately after dinner. Their directions were simple, but
sufficient: "Keep down the arroyo for fifteen miles till you get
there." Both being strangers from afar, young, spirited, and thus
thrown together by chance for a long ride, it is likely that the
comradeship that afterward existed so strongly between them began
that afternoon as they meandered along the little valley of the
Canada Verda.</p>
<p>They reached their destination just after sunset. The main camp of
the round-up was comfortably located on the bank of a long
water-hole, under a fine mott of timber. A number of small A tents
pitched upon grassy spots and the big wall tent for provisions
showed that the camp was intended to be occupied for a
considerable length of time.</p>
<p>The round-up had ridden in but a few moments before, hungry and
tired, to a supperless camp. The boys were engaged in an emulous
display of anathemas supposed to fit the case of the absconding
cook. While they were unsaddling and hobbling their ponies, the
newcomer rode in and inquired for Pink Saunders. The boss ol the
round-up came forth and was given the superintendent's note.</p>
<p>Pink Saunders, though a boss during working hours, was a humorist
in camp, where everybody, from cook to superintendent, is equal.
After reading the note he waved his hand toward the camp and
shouted, ceremoniously, at the top of his voice, "Gentlemen, allow
me to present to you the Marquis and Miss Sally."</p>
<p>At the words both the new arrivals betray confusion. The newly
employed cook started, with a surprised look on his face, but,
immediately recollecting that "Miss Sally" is the generic name for
the male cook in every west Texas cow camp, he recovered his
composure with a grin at his own expense.</p>
<p>His companion showed little less discomposure, even turning
angrily, with a bitten lip, and reaching for his saddle pommel, as
if to remount his pony; but "Miss Sally" touched his arm and said,
laughingly, "Come now. Marquis; that was quite a compliment from
Saunders. It's that distinguished air of yours and aristocratic
nose that made him call you that."</p>
<p>He began to unsaddle, and the Marquis, restored to equanimity,
followed his example. Rolling up his sleeves, Miss Sally sprang
for the grub wagon, shouting: "I'm the new cook b'thunder! Some of
you chaps rustle a little wood for a fire, and I'll guarantee you
a hot square meal inside of thirty minutes." Miss Sally's energy
and good-humor, as he ransacked the grub wagon for coffee, flour,
and bacon, won the good opinion of the camp instantly.</p>
<p>And also, in days following, the Marquis, after becoming better
acquainted, proved to be a cheerful, pleasant fellow, always a
little reserved, and taking no part in the rough camp frolics; but
the boys gradually came to respect this reserve—which fitted the
title Saunders had given him—and even to like him for it.
Saunders had assigned him to a place holding the herd during the
cuttings. He proved to be a skilful rider and as good with the
lariat or in the branding pen as most of them.</p>
<p>The Marquis and Miss Sally grew to be quite close comrades. After
supper was over, and everything cleaned up, you would generally
find them together, Miss Sally smoking his brier-root pipe, and
the Marquis plaiting a quirt or scraping rawhide for a new pair of
hobbles.</p>
<p>The superintendent did not forget his promise to keep an eye on
the cook. Several times, when visiting the camp, he held long
talks with him. He seemed to have taken a fancy to Miss Sally. One
afternoon he rode up, on his way back to the ranch from a tour of
the camps, and said to him:</p>
<p>"There'll be a man here in the morning to take your place. As soon
as he shows up you come to the ranch. I want you to take charge of
the ranch accounts and correspondence. I want somebody that I can
depend upon to keep things straight when I'm away. The wages'll be
all right. The Diamond-Cross'll hold its end up with a man who'll
look after its interests."</p>
<p>"All right," said Miss Sally, as quietly as if he had expected the
notice all along. "Any objections to my bringing my wife down to
the ranch?"</p>
<p>"You married?" said the superintendent, frowning a little. "You
didn't mention it when we were talking."</p>
<p>"Because I'm not," said the cook. "But I'd like to be. Thought I'd
wait till I got a job under roof. I couldn't ask her to live in a
cow camp."</p>
<p>"Right," agreed the superintendent. "A camp isn't quite the place
for a married man—but—well, there's plenty of room at the house,
and if you suit us as well as I think you will you can afford it.
You write to her to come on."</p>
<p>"All right," said Miss Sally again, "I'll ride in as soon as I am
relieved to-morrow."</p>
<p>It was a rather chilly night, and after supper the cow-punchers
were lounging about a big fire of dried mesquite chunks.</p>
<p>Their usual exchange of jokes and repartee had dwindled almost to
silence, but silence in a cow camp generally betokens the brewing
of mischief.</p>
<p>Miss Sally and the Marquis were seated upon a log, discussing the
relative merits of the lengthened or shortened stirrup in
long-distance riding. The Marquis arose presently and went to a
tree near by to examine some strips of rawhide he was seasoning
for making a lariat. Just as he left a little puff of wind blew
some scraps of tobacco from a cigarette that Dry-Creek Smithers
was rolling, into Miss Sally's eyes. While the cook was rubbing at
them, with tears flowing, "Phonograph" Davis—so called on account
of his strident voice—arose and began a speech.</p>
<p>"Fellers and citizens! I desire to perpound a interrogatory. What
is the most grievous spectacle what the human mind can
contemplate?"</p>
<p>A volley of answers responded to his question.</p>
<p>"A busted flush!"</p>
<p>"A Maverick when you ain't got your branding iron!"</p>
<p>"Yourself!"</p>
<p>"The hole in the end of some other feller's gun!"</p>
<p>"Shet up, you ignoramuses," said old Taller, the fat cow-puncher.
"Phony knows what it is. He's waitin' for to tell us."</p>
<p>"No, fellers and citizens," continued Phonograph. "Them spectacles
you've e-numerated air shore grievious, and way up yonder close to
the so-lution, but they ain't it. The most grievious spectacle air
that"—he pointed to Miss Sally, who was still rubbing his
streaming eyes—"a trustin' and a in-veegled female a-weepin'
tears on account of her heart bein' busted by a false deceiver.
Air we men or air we catamounts to gaze upon the blightin' of our
Miss Sally's affections by a a-risto-crat, which has come among us
with his superior beauty and his glitterin' title to give the
weeps to the lovely critter we air bound to pertect? Air we goin'
to act like men, or air we goin' to keep on eaten' soggy chuck
from her cryin' so plentiful over the bread-pan?"</p>
<p>"It's a gallopin' shame," said Dry-Creek, with a sniffle. "It
ain't human. I've noticed the varmint a-palaverin' round her
frequent. And him a Marquis! Ain't that a title, Phony?"</p>
<p>"It's somethin' like a king," the Brushy Creek Kid hastened to
explain, "only lower in the deck. Guess it comes in between the
Jack and the ten-spot."</p>
<p>"Don't miscontruct me," went on Phonograph, "as undervaluatin' the
a-ristocrats. Some of 'em air proper people and can travel right
along with the Watson boys. I've herded some with 'em myself. I've
viewed the elephant with the Mayor of Fort Worth, and I've
listened to the owl with the gen'ral passenger agent of the Katy,
and they can keep up with the percession from where you laid the
chunk. But when a Marquis monkeys with the innocent affections of
a cook-lady, may I inquire what the case seems to call for?"</p>
<p>"The leathers," shouted Dry-Creek Smithers.</p>
<p>"You hearn 'er, Charity!" was the Kid's form of corroboration.</p>
<p>"We've got your company," assented the cow-punchers, in chorus.</p>
<p>Before the Marquis realized their intention, two of them seized
him by each arm and led him up to the log. Phonograph Davis,
self-appointed to carry out the sentence, stood ready, with a pair
of stout leather leggings in his hands.</p>
<p>It was the first time they had ever laid hands on the Marquis
during their somewhat rude sports.</p>
<p>"What are you up to?" he asked, indignantly, with flashing eyes.</p>
<p>"Go easy, Marquis," whispered Rube Fellows, one of the boys that
held him. "It's all in fun. Take it good-natured and they'll let
you off light. They're only goin' to stretch you over the log and
tan you eight or ten times with the leggin's. 'Twon't hurt much."</p>
<p>The Marquis, with an exclamation of anger, his white teeth
gleaming, suddenly exhibited a surprising strength. He wrenched
with his arms so violently that the four men were swayed and
dragged many yards from the log. A cry of anger escaped him, and
then Miss Sally, his eyes cleared of the tobacco, saw, and he
immediately mixed with the struggling group.</p>
<p>But at that moment a loud "Hallo!" rang in their ears, and a
buckboard drawn by a team of galloping mustangs spun into the
campfire's circle of light. Every man turned to look, and what
they saw drove from their minds all thoughts of carrying out
Phonograph Davis's rather time-worn contribution to the evening's
amusement. Bigger game than the Marquis was at hand, and his
captors released him and stood staring at the approaching victim.</p>
<p>The buckboard and team belonged to Sam Holly, a cattleman from the
Big Muddy. Sam was driving, and with him was a stout, smooth-faced
man, wearing a frock coat and a high silk hat. That was the county
judge, Mr. Dave Hackett, candidate for reëlection. Sam was
escorting him about the county, among the camps, to shake up the
sovereign voters.</p>
<p>The men got out, hitched the team to a mesquite, and walked toward
the fire.</p>
<p>Instantly every man in camp, except the Marquis, Miss Sally, and
Pink Saunders, who had to play host, uttered a frightful yell of
assumed terror and fled on all sides into the darkness.</p>
<p>"Heavens alive!" exclaimed Hackett, "are we as ugly as that? How
do you do, Mr. Saunders? Glad to see you again. What are you doing
to my hat, Holly?"</p>
<p>"I was afraid of this hat," said Sam Holly, meditatively. He had
taken the hat from Hackett's head and was holding it in his hand,
looking dubiously around at the shadows beyond the firelight where
now absolute stillness reigned. "What do you think, Saunders?"</p>
<p>Pink grinned.</p>
<p>"Better elevate it some," he said, in the tone of one giving
disinterested advice. "The light ain't none too good. I wouldn't
want it on my head."</p>
<p>Holly stepped upon the hub of a hind wheel of the grub wagon and
hung the hat upon a limb of a live-oak. Scarcely had his foot
touched the ground when the crash of a dozen six-shooters split
the air, and the hat fell to the ground riddled with bullets.</p>
<p>A hissing noise was heard as if from a score of rattlesnakes, and
now the cow-punchers emerged on all sides from the darkness,
stepping high, with ludicrously exaggerated caution, and
"hist"-ing to one another to observe the utmost prudence in
approaching. They formed a solemn, wide circle about the hat,
gazing at it in manifest alarm, and seized every few moments by
little stampedes of panicky flight.</p>
<p> "It's the varmint," said one in awed tones, "that flits up and
down in  the low grounds at night, saying, 'Willie-wallo!'"</p>
<p>"It's the venomous Kypootum," proclaimed another. "It stings after
it's dead, and hollers after it's buried."</p>
<p>"It's the chief of the hairy tribe," said Phonograph Davis. "But
it's stone dead, now, boys."</p>
<p>"Don't you believe it," demurred Dry-Creek. "It's only
'possumin'.' It's the dreaded Highgollacum fantod from the forest.
There's only one way to destroy its life."</p>
<p>He led forward Old Taller, the 240-pound cow-puncher. Old Taller
placed the hat upright on the ground and solemnly sat upon it,
crushing it as flat as a pancake.</p>
<p>Hackett had viewed these proceedings with wide-open eyes. Sam
Holly saw that his anger was rising and said to him:</p>
<p>"Here's where you win or lose, Judge. There are sixty votes on the
Diamond Cross. The boys are trying your mettle. Take it as a joke,
and I don't think you'll regret it." And Hackett saw the point and
rose to the occasion.</p>
<p>Advancing to where the slayers of the wild beast were standing
above its remains and declaring it to be at last defunct, he said,
with deep earnestness:</p>
<p>"Boys, I must thank you for this gallant rescue. While driving
through the arroyo that cruel monster that you have so fearlessly
and repeatedly slaughtered sprang upon us from the tree tops. To
you I shall consider that I owe my life, and also, I hope,
reëlection to the office for which I am again a candidate.
Allow me to hand you my card."</p>
<p>The cow-punchers, always so sober-faced while engaged in their
monkey-shines, relaxed into a grin of approval.</p>
<p>But Phonograph Davis, his appetite for fun not yet appeased, had
something more up his sleeve.</p>
<p>"Pardner," he said, addressing Hackett with grave severity, "many
a camp would be down on you for turnin' loose a pernicious varmint
like that in it; but, bein' as we all escaped without loss of
life, we'll overlook it. You can play square with us if you'll do
it."</p>
<p>"How's that?" asked Hackett suspiciously.</p>
<p>"You're authorized to perform the sacred rights and lefts of
mattermony, air you not?"</p>
<p>"Well, yes," replied Hackett. "A marriage ceremony conducted by me
would be legal."</p>
<p>"A wrong air to be righted in this here camp," said Phonography,
virtuously. "A a-ristocrat have slighted a 'umble but beautchoos
female wat's pinin' for his affections. It's the jooty of the camp
to drag forth the haughty descendant of a hundred—or maybe a
hundred and twenty-five—earls, even so at the p'int of a lariat,
and jine him to the weepin' lady. Fellows! roundup Miss Sally and
the Marquis; there's goin' to be a weddin'."</p>
<p>This whim of Phonograph's was received with whoops of
appreciation. The cow-punchers started to apprehend the principals
of the proposed ceremony.</p>
<p>"Kindly prompt me," said Hackett, wiping his forehead, though the
night was cool, "how far this thing is to be carried. And might I
expect any further portions of my raiment to be mistaken for wild
animals and killed?"</p>
<p>"The boys are livelier than usual to-night," said Saunders. "The
ones they are talking about marrying are two of the boys—a herd
rider and the cook. It's another joke. You and Sam will have to
sleep here to-night anyway; p'rhaps you'd better see 'em through
with it. Maybe they'll quiet down after that."</p>
<p>The matchmakers found Miss Sally seated on the tongue of the grub
wagon, calmly smoking his pipe. The Marquis was leaning idly
against one of the trees under which the supply tent was pitched.</p>
<p>Into this tent they were both hustled, and Phonograph, as master
of ceremonies, gave orders for the preparations.</p>
<p>"You, Dry-Creek and Jimmy, and Ben and Taller—hump yourselves to
the wildwood and rustle flowers for the blow-out—mesquite'll
do—and get that Spanish dagger blossom at the corner of the horse
corral for the bride to pack. You, Limpy, get out that red and
yaller blanket of your'n for Miss Sally's skyirt. Marquis, you'll
do 'thout fixin'; nobody don't ever look at the groom."</p>
<p>During their absurd preparation, the two principals were left
alone for a few moments in the tent. The Marquis suddenly showed
wild perturbation.</p>
<p>"This foolishness must not go on," he said, turning to Miss Sally
a face white in the light of the lantern, hanging to the
ridge-pole.</p>
<p>"Why not?" said the cook, with an amused smile. "It's fun for the
boys; and they've always let you off pretty light in their
frolics. I don't mind it."</p>
<p>"But you don't understand," persisted the Marquis, pleadingly.
"That man is county judge, and his acts are binding. I can't—oh,
you don't know—"</p>
<p>The cook stepped forward and took the Marquis's hands.</p>
<p>"Sally Bascom," he said, "I KNOW!"</p>
<p>"You know!" faltered the Marquis, trembling. "And you—want to—"</p>
<p>"More than I ever wanted anything. Will you—here come the boys!"</p>
<p>The cow-punchers crowded in, laden with armfuls of decorations.</p>
<p>"Perfifious coyote!" said Phonograph, sternly, addressing the
Marquis. "Air you willing to patch up the damage you've did this
ere slab-sided but trustin' bunch o' calico by single-footin' easy
to the altar, or will we have to rope ye, and drag you thar?"</p>
<p>The Marquis pushed back his hat, and leaned jauntily against some
high-piled sacks of beans. His cheeks were flushed, and his eyes
were shining.</p>
<p>"Go on with the rat killin'," said he.</p>
<p>A little while after a procession approached the tree under which
Hackett, Holly, and Saunders were sitting smoking.</p>
<p>Limpy Walker was in the lead, extracting a doleful tune from his
concertina. Next came the bride and groom. The cook wore the
gorgeous Navajo blanket tied around his waist and carried in one
band the waxen-white Spanish dagger blossom as large as a
peck-measure and weighing fifteen pounds. His hat was ornamented
with mesquite branches and yellow ratama blooms. A resurrected
mosquito bar served as a veil. After them stumbled Phonograph
Davis, in the character of the bride's father, weeping into a
saddle blanket with sobs that could be heard a mile away. The
cow-punchers followed by twos, loudly commenting upon the bride's
appearance, in a supposed imitation of the audiences at
fashionable weddings.</p>
<p>Hackett rose as the procession halted before him, and after a
little lecture upon matrimony, asked:</p>
<p>"What are your names?"</p>
<p>"Sally and Charles," answered the cook.</p>
<p>"Join hands, Charles and Sally."</p>
<p>Perhaps there never was a stranger wedding. For, wedding it was,
though only two of those present knew it. When the ceremony was
over, the cow-punchers gave one yell of congratulation and
immediately abandoned their foolery for the night. Blankets were
unrolled and sleep became the paramount question.</p>
<p>The cook (divested of his decorations) and the Marquis lingered
for a moment in the shadow of the grub wagon. The Marquis leaned
her head against his shoulder.</p>
<p>"I didn't know what else to do," she was saying. "Father was gone,
and we kids had to rustle. I had helped him so much with the
cattle that I thought I'd turn cowboy. There wasn't anything else
I could make a living at. I wasn't much stuck on it though, after
I got here, and I'd have left only—"</p>
<p>"Only what?"</p>
<p>"You know. Tell me something. When did you first—what made you—"</p>
<p>"Oh, it was as soon as we struck the camp, when Saunders bawled
out 'The Marquis and Miss Sally!' I saw how rattled you got at the
name, and I had my sus—"</p>
<p>"Cheeky!" whispered the Marquis. "And why should you think that I
thought he was calling me 'Miss Sally'?"</p>
<p>"Because," answered the cook, calmly, "I was the Marquis. My
father was the Marquis of Borodale. But you'll excuse that, won't
you, Sally? It really isn't my fault, you know."</p>
<h2>A FOG IN SANTONE</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Published in <i>The Cosmopolitan</i>
, October, 1912. Probably written in 1904, or shortly after
O. Henry's first successes in New York.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>The drug clerk looks sharply at the white face half concealed by
the high-turned overcoat collar.</p>
<p>"I would rather not supply you," he said doubtfully. "I sold you a
dozen morphine tablets less than an hour ago."</p>
<p>The customer smiles wanly. "The fault is in your crooked streets.
I didn't intend to call upon you twice, but I guess I got tangled
up. Excuse me."</p>
<p>He draws his collar higher, and moves out, slowly. He stops under
an electric light at the corner, and juggles absorbedly with three
or four little pasteboard boxes. "Thirty-six," he announces to
himself. "More than plenty." For a gray mist had swept upon
Santone that night, an opaque terror that laid a hand to the
throat of each of the city's guests. It was computed that three
thousand invalids were hibernating in the town. They had come from
far and wide, for here, among these contracted river-sliced
streets, the goddess Ozone has elected to linger.</p>
<p>Purest atmosphere, sir, on earth! You might think from the river
winding through our town that we are malarial, but, no, sir!
Repeated experiments made both by the Government and local experts
show that our air contains nothing deleterious—nothing but ozone,
sir, pure ozone. Litmus paper tests made all along the river
show—but you can read it all in the prospectuses; or the
Santonian will recite it for you, word by word.</p>
<p>We may achieve climate, but weather is thrust upon us. Santone,
then, cannot be blamed for this cold gray fog that came and kissed
the lips of the three thousand, and then delivered them to the
cross. That night the tubercles, whose ravages hope holds in
check, multiplied. The writhing fingers of the pale mist did not
go thence bloodless. Many of the wooers of ozone capitulated with
the enemy that night, turning their faces to the wall in that
dumb, isolated apathy that so terrifies their watchers. On the red
stream of Hemorrhagia a few souls drifted away, leaving behind
pathetic heaps, white and chill as the fog itself. Two or three
came to view this atmospheric wraith as the ghost of impossible
joys, sent to whisper to them of the egregious folly it is to
inhale breath into the lungs, only to exhale it again, and these
used whatever came handy to their relief, pistols, gas or the
beneficent muriate.</p>
<p>The purchaser of the morphia wanders into the fog, and at length,
finds himself upon a little iron bridge, one of the score or more
in the heart of the city, under which the small tortuous river
flows. He leans on the rail and gasps, for here the mist has
concentrated, lying like a foot-pad to garrote such of the Three
Thousand as creep that way. The iron bridge guys rattle to the
strain of his cough, a mocking phthisical rattle, seeming to say
to him: "Clickety-clack! just a little rusty cold, sir—but not
from our river. Litmus paper all along the banks and nothing but
ozone. Clacket-y-clack!"</p>
<p>The Memphis man at last recovers sufficiently to be aware of
another overcoated man ten feet away, leaning on the rail, and
just coming out of a paroxysm. There is a freemasonry among the
Three Thousand that does away with formalities and introductions.
A cough is your card; a hemorrhage a letter of credit. The Memphis
man, being nearer recovered, speaks first.</p>
<p>"Goodall. Memphis—pulmonary tuberculosis—guess last stages." The
Three Thousand economize on words. Words are breath and they need
breath to write checks for the doctors.</p>
<p>"Hurd," gasps the other. "Hurd; of T'leder. T'leder, Ah-hia.
Catarrhal bronkeetis. Name's Dennis, too—doctor says. Says I'll
live four weeks if I—take care of myself. Got your walking papers
yet?"</p>
<p>"My doctor," says Goodall of Memphis, a little boastingly, "gives
me three months."</p>
<p>"Oh," remarks the man from Toledo, filling up great gaps in his
conversation with wheezes, "damn the difference. What's months!
Expect to—cut mine down to one week—and die in a hack—a four
wheeler, not a cough. Be considerable moanin' of the bars when I
put out to sea. I've patronized 'em pretty freely since I struck
my—present gait. Say, Goodall of Memphis—if your doctor has set
your pegs so close—why don't you—get on a big spree and go—to
the devil quick and easy—like I'm doing?"</p>
<p>"A spree," says Goodall, as one who entertains a new idea, "I
never did such a thing. I was thinking of another way, but—"</p>
<p>"Come on," invites the Ohioan, "and have some drinks. I've been at
it—for two days, but the inf—ernal stuff won't bite like it used
to. Goodall of Memphis, what's your respiration?"</p>
<p>"Twenty-four."</p>
<p>"Daily—temperature?"</p>
<p>"Hundred and four."</p>
<p>"You can do it in two days. It'll take me a—week. Tank up, friend
Goodall—have all the fun you can; then—off you go, in the middle
of a jag, and s-s-save trouble and expense. I'm a s-son of a gun
if this ain't a health resort—for your whiskers! A Lake Erie
fog'd get lost here in two minutes."</p>
<p>"You said something about a drink," says Goodall.</p>
<p>A few minutes later they line up at a glittering bar, and hang
upon the arm rest. The bartender, blond, heavy, well-groomed, sets
out their drinks, instantly perceiving that he serves two of the
Three Thousand. He observes that one is a middle-aged man,
well-dressed, with a lined and sunken face; the other a mere boy
who is chiefly eyes and overcoat. Disguising well the tedium
begotten by many repetitions, the server of drinks begins to chant
the sanitary saga of Santone. "Rather a moist night, gentlemen,
for our town. A little fog from our river, but nothing to hurt.
Repeated Tests."</p>
<p>"Damn your litmus papers," gasps Toledo—"without any—personal
offense intended."</p>
<p>"We've heard of 'em before. Let 'em turn red, white and blue. What
we want is a repeated test of that—whiskey. Come again. I paid
for the last round, Goodall of Memphis."</p>
<p>The bottle oscillates from one to the other, continues to do so,
and is not removed from the counter. The bartender sees two
emaciated invalids dispose of enough Kentucky Belle to floor a
dozen cowboys, without displaying any emotion save a sad and
contemplative interest in the peregrinations of the bottle. So he
is moved to manifest a solicitude as to the consequences.</p>
<p>"Not on your Uncle Mark Hanna," responds Toledo, "will we get
drunk. We've been—vaccinated with whiskey—and—cod liver oil.
What would send you to the police station—only gives us a thirst.
S-s-set out another bottle."</p>
<p>It is slow work trying to meet death by that route. Some quicker
way must be found. They leave the saloon and plunge again into the
mist. The sidewalks are mere flanges at the base of the houses;
the street a cold ravine, the fog filling it like a freshet. Not
far away is the Mexican quarter. Conducted as if by wires along
the heavy air comes a guitar's tinkle, and the demoralizing voice
of some señorita singing:</p>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">"En las tardes sombrillos del invierroEn el prado a Marar me reclinoY maldigo mi fausto destino—Una vida la mas infeliz."</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>The words of it they do not understand—neither Toledo nor
Memphis, but words are the least important things in life. The
music tears the breasts of the seekers after Nepenthe, inciting
Toledo to remark:</p>
<p>"Those kids of mine—I wonder—by God, Mr. Goodall of Memphis, we
had too little of that whiskey! No slow music in mine, if you
please. It makes you disremember to forget."</p>
<p>Hurd of Toledo, here pulls out his watch, and says: "I'm a son of
a gun! Got an engagement for a hack ride out to San Pedro Springs
at eleven. Forgot it. A fellow from Noo York, and me, and the
Castillo sisters at Rhinegelder's Garden. That Noo York chap's a
lucky dog—got one whole lung—good for a year yet. Plenty of
money, too. He pays for everything. I can't afford—to miss the
jamboree. Sorry you ain't going along. Good-by, Goodall of
Memphis."</p>
<p>He rounds the corner and shuffles away, casting off thus easily
the ties of acquaintanceship as the moribund do, the season of
dissolution being man's supreme hour of egoism and selfishness.
But he turns and calls back through the fog to the other: "I say,
Goodall of Memphis! If you get there before I do, tell 'em Hurd's
a-comin' too. Hurd, of T'leder, Ah-hia."</p>
<p>Thus Goodall's tempter deserts him. That youth, uncomplaining and
uncaring, takes a spell at coughing, and, recovered, wanders
desultorily on down the street, the name of which he neither knows
nor recks. At a certain point he perceives swinging doors, and
hears, filtering between them a noise of wind and string
instruments. Two men enter from the street as he arrives, and he
follows them in. There is a kind of ante-chamber, plentifully set
with palms and cactuses and oleanders. At little marble-topped
tables some people sit, while soft-shod attendants bring the beer.
All is orderly, clean, melancholy, gay, of the German method of
pleasure. At his right is the foot of a stairway. A man there
holds out his hand. Goodall extends his, full of silver, the man
selects therefrom a coin. Goodall goes upstairs and sees there two
galleries extending along the sides of a concert hall which he now
perceives to lie below and beyond the anteroom he first entered.
These galleries are divided into boxes or stalls, which bestow
with the aid of hanging lace curtains, a certain privacy upon
their occupants.</p>
<p>Passing with aimless feet down the aisle contiguous to these saucy
and discreet compartments, he is half checked by the sight in one
of them of a young woman, alone and seated in an attitude of
reflection. This young woman becomes aware of his approach. A
smile from her brings him to a standstill, and her subsequent
invitation draws him, though hesitating, to the other chair in the
box, a little table between them.</p>
<p>Goodall is only nineteen. There are some whom, when the terrible
god Phthisis wishes to destroy he first makes beautiful; and the
boy is one of these. His face is wax, and an awful pulchritude is
born of the menacing flame in his cheeks. His eyes reflect an
unearthly vista engendered by the certainty of his doom. As it is
forbidden man to guess accurately concerning his fate, it is
inevitable that he shall tremble at the slightest lifting of the
veil.</p>
<p>The young woman is well-dressed, and exhibits a beauty of
distinctly feminine and tender sort; an Eve-like comeliness that
scarcely seems predestined to fade.</p>
<p>It is immaterial, the steps by which the two mount to a certain
plane of good understanding; they are short and few, as befits the
occasion.</p>
<p>A button against the wall of the partition is frequently disturbed
and a waiter comes and goes at signal.</p>
<p>Pensive beauty would nothing of wine; two thick plaits of her
blond hair hang almost to the floor; she is a lineal descendant of
the Lorelei. So the waiter brings the brew; effervescent, icy,
greenish golden. The orchestra on the stage is playing "Oh,
Rachel." The youngsters have exchanged a good bit of information.
She calls him, "Walter" and he calls her "Miss Rosa."</p>
<p>Goodall's tongue is loosened and he has told her everything about
himself, about his home in Tennessee, the old pillared mansion
under the oaks, the stables, the hunting; the friends he has; down
to the chickens, and the box bushes bordering the walks. About his
coming South for the climate, hoping to escape the hereditary foe
of his family. All about his three months on a ranch; the deer
hunts, the rattlers, and the rollicking in the cow camps. Then of
his advent to Santone, where he had indirectly learned, from a
great specialist, that his life's calendar probably contains but
two more leaves. And then of this death-white, choking night which
has come and strangled his fortitude and sent him out to seek a
port amid its depressing billows.</p>
<p>"My weekly letter from home failed to come," he told her, "and I
was pretty blue. I knew I had to go before long and I was tired of
waiting. I went out and bought morphine at every drug store where
they would sell me a few tablets. I got thirty-six quarter grains,
and was going back to my room and take them, but I met a queer
fellow on a bridge, who had a new idea."</p>
<p>Goodall fillips a little pasteboard box upon the table. "I put 'em
all together in there."</p>
<p>Miss Rosa, being a woman, must raise the lid, and gave a slight
shiver at the innocent looking triturates. "Horrid things! but
those little, white bits—they could never kill one!"</p>
<p>Indeed they could. Walter knew better. Nine grains of morphia!
Why, half the amount might.</p>
<p>Miss Rosa demands to know about Mr. Hurd, of Toledo, and is told.
She laughs like a delighted child. "What a funny fellow! But tell
me more about your home and your sisters, Walter. I know enough
about Texas and tarantulas and cowboys."</p>
<p>The theme is dear, just now, to his mood, and he lays before her
the simple details of a true home; the little ties and endearments
that so fill the exile's heart. Of his sisters, one, Alice,
furnishes him a theme he loves to dwell upon.</p>
<p>"She is like you, Miss Rosa," he says. "Maybe not quite so pretty,
but, just as nice, and good, and—"</p>
<p>"There! Walter," says Miss Rosa sharply, "now talk about something
else."</p>
<p>But a shadow falls upon the wall outside, preceding a big, softly
treading man, finely dressed, who pauses a second before the
curtains and then passes on. Presently comes the waiter with a
message: "Mr. Rolfe says—"</p>
<p>"Tell Rolfe I'm engaged."</p>
<p>"I don't know why it is," says Goodall, of Memphis, "but I don't
feel as bad as I did. An hour ago I wanted to die, but since I've
met you, Miss Rosa, I'd like so much to live."</p>
<p>The young woman whirls around the table, lays an arm behind his
neck and kisses him on the cheek.</p>
<p>"You must, dear boy," she says. "I know what was the matter. It
was the miserable foggy weather that has lowered your spirit and
mine too—a little. But look, now."</p>
<p>With a little spring she has drawn back the curtains. A window is
in the wall opposite, and lo! the mist is cleared away. The
indulgent moon is out again, revoyaging the plumbless sky. Roof
and parapet and spire are softly pearl enamelled. Twice, thrice
the retrieved river flashes back, between the houses, the light of
the firmament. A tonic day will dawn, sweet and prosperous.</p>
<p>"Talk of death when the world is so beautiful!" says Miss Rosa,
laying her hand on his shoulder. "Do something to please me,
Walter. Go home to your rest and say: 'I mean to get better,' and
do it."</p>
<p>"If you ask it," says the boy, with a smile, "I will."</p>
<p>The waiter brings full glasses. Did they ring? No; but it is well.
He may leave them. A farewell glass. Miss Rosa says: "To your
better health, Walter." He says: "To our next meeting."</p>
<p>His eyes look no longer into the void, but gaze upon the
antithesis of death. His foot is set in an undiscovered country
to-night. He is obedient, ready to go.</p>
<p>"Good night," she says.</p>
<p>"I never kissed a girl before," he confesses, "except my sisters."</p>
<p>"You didn't this time," she laughs, "I kissed you—good night."</p>
<p>"When shall I see you again," he persists.</p>
<p>"You promised me to go home," she frowns, "and get well. Perhaps
we shall meet again soon. Good night."</p>
<p>He hesitates, his hat in hand. She smiles broadly and kisses him
once more upon the forehead. She watches him far down the aisle,
then sits again at the table.</p>
<p>The shadow falls once more against the wall. This time the big,
softly stepping man parts the curtains and looks in. Miss Rosa's
eyes meet his and for half a minute they remain thus, silent,
fighting a battle with that king of weapons. Presently the big man
drops the curtains and passes on.</p>
<p>The orchestra ceases playing suddenly, and an important voice can
be heard loudly talking in one of the boxes farther down the
aisle. No doubt some citizen entertains there some visitor to the
town, and Miss Rosa leans back in her chair and smiles at some of
the words she catches:</p>
<p>"Purest atmosphere—in the world—litmus paper all long—nothing
hurtful—our city—nothing but pure ozone."</p>
<p>The waiter returns for the tray and glasses. As he enters, the
girl crushes a little empty pasteboard box in her hand and throws
it in a corner. She is stirring something in her glass with her
hatpin.</p>
<p>"Why, Miss Rosa," says the waiter with the civil familiarity he
uses—"putting salt in your beer this early in the night!"</p>
<h2>THE FRIENDLY CALL</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Published in "Monthly Magazine
Section," July, 1910.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>When I used to sell hardware in the West, I often "made" a little
town called Saltillo, in Colorado. I was always certain of
securing a small or a large order from Simon Bell, who kept a
general store there. Bell was one of those six-foot, low-voiced
products, formed from a union of the West and the South. I liked
him. To look at him you would think he should be robbing stage
coaches or juggling gold mines with both hands; but he would sell
you a paper of tacks or a spool of thread, with ten times more
patience and courtesy than any saleslady in a city department
store.</p>
<p>I had a twofold object in my last visit to Saltillo. One was to
sell a bill of goods; the other to advise Bell of a chance that I
knew of by which I was certain he could make a small fortune.</p>
<p>In Mountain City, a town on the Union Pacific, five times larger
than Saltillo, a mercantile firm was about to go to the wall. It
had a lively and growing custom, but was on the edge of
dissolution and ruin. Mismanagement and the gambling habits of one
of the partners explained it. The condition of the firm was not
yet public property. I had my knowledge of it from a private
source. I knew that, if the ready cash were offered, the stock and
good will could be bought for about one fourth their value.</p>
<p>On arriving in Saltillo I went to Bell's store. He nodded to me,
smiled his broad, lingering smile, went on leisurely selling some
candy to a little girl, then came around the counter and shook
hands.</p>
<p>"Well," he said (his invariably preliminary jocosity at every
call I made), "I suppose you are out here making kodak pictures of
the mountains. It's the wrong time of the year to buy any
hardware, of course."</p>
<p>I told Bell about the bargain in Mountain City. If he wanted to
take advantage of it, I would rather have missed a sale than have
him overstocked in Saltillo.</p>
<p>"It sounds good," he said, with enthusiasm. "I'd like to branch
out and do a bigger business, and I'm obliged to you for
mentioning it. But—well, you come and stay at my house to-night
and I'll think about it."</p>
<p>It was then after sundown and time for the larger stores in
Saltillo to close. The clerks in Bell's put away their books,
whirled the combination of the safe, put on their coats and hats
and left for their homes. Bell padlocked the big, double wooden
front doors, and we stood, for a moment, breathing the keen, fresh
mountain air coming across the foothills.</p>
<p>A big man walked down the street and stopped in front of the high
porch of the store. His long, black moustache, black eyebrows, and
curly black hair contrasted queerly with his light, pink
complexion, which belonged, by rights, to a blonde. He was about
forty, and wore a white vest, a white hat, a watch chain made of
five-dollar gold pieces linked together, and a rather well-fitting
two-piece gray suit of the cut that college boys of eighteen are
wont to affect. He glanced at me distrustfully, and then at Bell
with coldness and, I thought, something of enmity in his
expression.</p>
<p>"Well," asked Bell, as if he were addressing a stranger, "did you
fix up that matter?"</p>
<p>"Did I!" the man answered, in a resentful tone. "What do you
suppose I've been here two weeks for? The business is to be
settled to-night. Does that suit you, or have you got something to
kick about?"</p>
<p>"It's all right," said Bell. "I knew you'd do it."</p>
<p>"Of course, you did," said the magnificent stranger. "Haven't I
done it before?"</p>
<p>"You have," admitted Bell. "And so have I. How do you find it at
the hotel?"</p>
<p>"Rocky grub. But I ain't kicking. Say—can you give me any
pointers about managing that—affair? It's my first deal in that
line of business, you know."</p>
<p>"No, I can't," answered Bell, after some thought. "I've tried all
kinds of ways. You'll have to try some of your own."</p>
<p>"Tried soft soap?"</p>
<p>"Barrels of it."</p>
<p>"Tried a saddle girth with a buckle on the end of it?"</p>
<p>"Never none. Started to once; and here's what I got."</p>
<p>Bill held out his right hand. Even in the deepening twilight, I
could see on the back of it a long, white scar that might have
been made by a claw or a knife or some sharp-edged tool.</p>
<p>"Oh, well," said the florid man, carelessly, "I'll know what to do
later on."</p>
<p>He walked away without another word. When he had gone ten steps he
turned and called to Bell:</p>
<p>"You keep well out of the way when the goods are delivered, so
there won't be any hitch in the business."</p>
<p>"All right," answered Bell, "I'll attend to my end of the line."</p>
<p>This talk was scarcely clear in its meaning to me; but as it did
not concern me, I did not let it weigh upon my mind. But the
singularity of the other man's appearance lingered with me for a
while; and as we walked toward Bell's house I remarked to him:</p>
<p>"Your customer seems to be a surly kind of fellow—not one that
you'd like to be snowed in with in a camp on a hunting trip."</p>
<p>"He is that," assented Bell, heartily. "He reminds me of a
rattlesnake that's been poisoned by the bite of a tarantula."</p>
<p>"He doesn't look like a citizen of Saltillo," I went on.</p>
<p>"No," said Bell, "he lives in Sacramento. He's down here on a
little business trip. His name is George Ringo, and he's been my
best friend—in fact the only friend I ever had—for twenty
years."</p>
<p>I was too surprised to make any further comment.</p>
<p>Bell lived in a comfortable, plain, square, two-story white house
on the edge of the little town. I waited in the parlor—a room
depressingly genteel—furnished with red plush, straw matting,
looped-up lace curtains, and a glass case large enough to contain
a mummy, full of mineral specimens.</p>
<p>While I waited, I heard, upstairs, that unmistakable sound
instantly recognized the world over—a bickering woman's voice,
rising as her anger and fury grew. I could hear, between the
gusts, the temperate rumble of Bell's tones, striving to oil the
troubled waters.</p>
<p>The storm subsided soon; but not before I had heard the woman say,
in a lower, concentrated tone, rather more carrying than her
high-pitched railings: "This is the last time. I tell you—the
last time. Oh, you <i>will</i> understand."</p>
<p>The household seemed to consist of only Bell and his wife and a
servant or two. I was introduced to Mrs. Bell at supper.</p>
<p>At first sight she seemed to be a handsome woman, but I soon
perceived that her charm had been spoiled. An uncontrolled
petulance, I thought, and emotional egotism, an absence of poise
and a habitual dissatisfaction had marred her womanhood. During
the meal, she showed that false gayety, spurious kindliness and
reactionary softness that mark the woman addicted to tantrums.
Withal, she was a woman who might be attractive to many men.</p>
<p>After supper, Bell and I took our chairs outside, set them on the
grass in the moonlight and smoked. The full moon is a witch. In
her light, truthful men dig up for you nuggets of purer gold;
while liars squeeze out brighter colors from the tubes of their
invention. I saw Bell's broad, slow smile come out upon his face
and linger there.</p>
<p>"I reckon you think George and me are a funny kind of friends," he
said. "The fact is we never did take much interest in each other's
company. But his idea and mine, of what a friend should be, was
always synonymous and we lived up to it, strict, all these years.
Now, I'll give you an idea of what our idea is.</p>
<p>"A man don't need but one friend. The fellow who drinks your
liquor and hangs around you, slapping you on the back and taking
up your time, telling you how much he likes you, ain't a friend,
even if you did play marbles at school and fish in the same creek
with him. As long as you don't need a friend one of that kind may
answer. But a friend, to my mind, is one you can deal with on a
strict reciprocity basis like me and George have always done.</p>
<p>"A good many years ago, him and me was connected in a number of
ways. We put our capital together and run a line of freight wagons
in New Mexico, and we mined some and gambled a few. And then, we
got into trouble of one or two kinds; and I reckon that got us on
a better understandable basis than anything else did, unless it
was the fact that we never had much personal use for each other's
ways. George is the vainest man I ever see, and the biggest brag.
He could blow the biggest geyser in the Yosemite valley back into
its hole with one whisper. I am a quiet man, and fond of
studiousness and thought. The more we used to see each other,
personally, the less we seemed to like to be together. If he ever
had slapped me on the back and snivelled over me like I've seen
men do to what they called their friends, I know I'd have had a
rough-and-tumble with him on the spot. Same way with George. He
hated my ways as bad as I did his. When we were mining, we lived
in separate tents, so as not to intrude our obnoxiousness on each
other.</p>
<p>"But after a long time, we begun to know each of us could depend
on the other when we were in a pinch, up to his last dollar, word
of honor or perjury, bullet, or drop of blood we had in the world.
We never even spoke of it to each other, because that would have
spoiled it. But we tried it out, time after time, until we came to
know. I've grabbed my hat and jumped a freight and rode 200 miles
to identify him when he was about to be hung by mistake, in Idaho,
for a train robber. Once, I laid sick of typhoid in a tent in
Texas, without a dollar or a change of clothes, and sent for
George in Boise City. He came on the next train. The first thing
he did before speaking to me, was to hang up a little looking
glass on the side of the tent and curl his moustache and rub some
hair dye on his head. His hair is naturally a light reddish. Then
he gave me the most scientific cussing I ever had, and took off
his coat.</p>
<p>"'If you wasn't a Moses-meek little Mary's lamb, you wouldn't have
been took down this way,' says he. 'Haven't you got gumption
enough not to drink swamp water or fall down and scream whenever
you have a little colic or feel a mosquito bite you?' He made me a
little mad.</p>
<p>"'You've got the bedside manners of a Piute medicine man,' says I.
'And I wish you'd go away and let me die a natural death. I'm
sorry I sent for you.'</p>
<p>"'I've a mind to,' says George, 'for nobody cares whether you live
or die. But now I've been tricked into coming, I might as well
stay until this little attack of indigestion or nettle rash or
whatever it is, passes away.'</p>
<p>"Two weeks afterward, when I was beginning to get around again,
the doctor laughed and said he was sure that my friend's keeping
me mad all the time did more than his drugs to cure me.</p>
<p>"So that's the way George and me was friends. There wasn't any
sentiment about it—it was just give and take, and each of us knew
that the other was ready for the call at any time.</p>
<p>"I remember, once, I played a sort of joke on George, just to try
him. I felt a little mean about it afterward, because I never
ought to have doubted he'd do it.</p>
<p>"We was both living in a little town in the San Luis valley,
running some flocks of sheep and a few cattle. We were partners,
but, as usual, we didn't live together. I had an old aunt, out
from the East, visiting for the summer, so I rented a little
cottage. She soon had a couple of cows and some pigs and chickens
to make the place look like home. George lived alone in a little
cabin half a mile out of town.</p>
<p>"One day a calf that we had, died. That night I broke its bones,
dumped it into a coarse sack and tied it up with wire. I put on an
old shirt, tore a sleeve 'most out of it, and the collar half off,
tangled up my hair, put some red ink on my hands and spashed some
of it over my shirt and face. I must have looked like I'd been
having the fight of my life. I put the sack in a wagon and drove
out to George's cabin. When I halloed, he came out in a yellow
dressing-gown, a Turkish cap and patent leather shoes. George
always was a great dresser.</p>
<p>"I dumped the bundle to the ground.</p>
<p>"Sh-sh!' says I, kind of wild in my way. 'Take that and bury it,
George, out somewhere behind your house—bury it just like it is.
And don—'</p>
<p>"'Don't get excited,' says George. 'And for the Lord's sake go and
wash your hands and face and put on a clean shirt.'</p>
<p>"And he lights his pipe, while I drive away at a gallop. The next
morning he drops around to our cottage, where my aunt was fiddling
with her flowers and truck in the front yard. He bends himself and
bows and makes compliments as he could do, when so disposed, and
begs a rose bush from her, saying he had turned up a little land
back of his cabin, and wanted to plant something on it by way of
usefulness and ornament. So my aunt, flattered, pulls up one of
her biggest by the roots and gives it to him. Afterward I see it
growing where he planted it, in a place where the grass had been
cleared off and the dirt levelled. But neither George nor me ever
spoke of it to each other again."</p>
<p>The moon rose higher, possibly drawing water from the sea, pixies
from their dells and certainly more confidences from Simms Bell,
the friend of a friend.</p>
<p>"There come a time, not long afterward," he went on, "when I was
able to do a good turn for George Ringo. George had made a little
pile of money in beeves and he was up in Denver, and he showed up
when I saw him, wearing deer-skin vests, yellow shoes, clothes
like the awnings in front of drug stores, and his hair dyed so
blue that it looked black in the dark. He wrote me to come up
there, quick—that he needed me, and to bring the best outfit of
clothes I had. I had 'em on when I got the letter, so I left on
the next train. George was—"</p>
<p>Bell stopped for half a minute, listening intently.</p>
<p>"I thought I heard a team coming down the road,"
he explained. "George was at a summer resort on a lake
near Denver and was putting on as many airs as he knew
how. He had rented a little two-room cottage, and
had a Chihauhau dog and a hammock and eight different kinds of
walking sticks.</p>
<p>"'Simms,' he says to me, 'there's a widow woman here that's
pestering the soul out of me with her intentions. I can't get out
of her way. It ain't that she ain't handsome and agreeable, in a
sort of style, but her attentions is serious, and I ain't ready
for to marry nobody and settle down. I can't go to no festivity
nor sit on the hotel piazza or mix in any of the society
round-ups, but what she cuts me out of the herd and puts her daily
brand on me. I like this here place,' goes on George, 'and I'm
making a hit here in the most censorious circles, so I don't want
to have to run away from it. So I sent for you.'</p>
<p>"'What do you want me to do?' I asks George.</p>
<p>"'Why,' says he, 'I want you to head her off. I want you to cut me
out. I want you to come to the rescue. Suppose you seen a wildcat
about for to eat me, what would you do?'</p>
<p>"'Go for it,' says I.</p>
<p>"'Correct,' says George. 'Then go for this Mrs. De Clinton the
same.'</p>
<p>"'How am I to do it?' I asks. 'By force and awfulness or in some
gentler and less lurid manner?'</p>
<p>"'Court her,' George says, 'get her off my trail. Feed her. Take
her out in boats. Hang around her and stick to her. Get her mashed
on you if you can. Some women are pretty big fools. Who knows but
what she might take a fancy to you.'</p>
<p>"'Had you ever thought,' I asks, 'of repressing your fatal
fascinations in her presence; of squeezing a harsh note in the
melody of your siren voice, of veiling your beauty—in other
words, of giving her the bounce yourself?'</p>
<p>"George sees no essence of sarcasm in my remark. He twists his
moustache and looks at the points of his shoes.</p>
<p>"'Well, Simms,' he said, 'you know how I am about the ladies. I
can't hurt none of their feelings. I'm, by nature, polite and
esteemful of their intents and purposes. This Mrs. De Clinton
don't appear to be the suitable sort for me. Besides, I ain't a
marrying man by all means.'</p>
<p>"'All right,' said I, 'I'll do the best I can in the case.'</p>
<p>"So I bought a new outfit of clothes and a book on etiquette and
made a dead set for Mrs. De Clinton. She was a fine-looking woman,
cheerful and gay. At first, I almost had to hobble her to keep her
from loping around at George's heels; but finally I got her so she
seemed glad to go riding with me and sailing on the lake; and she
seemed real hurt on the mornings when I forgot to send her a bunch
of flowers. Still, I didn't like the way she looked at George,
sometimes, out of the corner of her eye. George was having a fine
time now, going with the whole bunch just as he pleased. Yes'm,"
continued Bell, "she certainly was a fine-looking woman at that
time. She's changed some since, as you might have noticed at the
supper table."</p>
<p>"What!" I exclaimed.</p>
<p>"I married Mrs. De Clinton," went on Bell. "One evening while we
were up at the lake. When I told George about it, he opened his
mouth and I thought he was going to break our traditions and say
something grateful, but he swallowed it back.</p>
<p>"'All right,' says he, playing with his dog. 'I hope you won't
have too much trouble. Myself, I'm not never going to marry.'</p>
<p>"That was three years ago," said Bell. "We came here to live. For
a year we got along medium fine. And then everything changed. For
two years I've been having something that rhymes first-class with
my name. You heard the row upstairs this evening? That was a merry
welcome compared to the usual average. She's tired of me and of
this little town life and she rages all day, like a panther in a
cage. I stood it until two weeks ago and then I had to send out
The Call. I located George in Sacramento. He started the day he
got my wire."</p>
<p>Mrs. Bell came out of the house swiftly toward us. Some strong
excitement or anxiety seemed to possess her, but she smiled a
faint hostess smile, and tried to keep her voice calm.</p>
<p>"The dew is falling," she said, "and it's growing rather late.
Wouldn't you gentlemen rather come into the house?"</p>
<p>Bell took some cigars from his pocket and answered: "It's most too
fine a night to turn in yet. I think Mr. Ames and I will walk out
along the road a mile or so and have another smoke. I want to talk
with him about some goods that I want to buy."</p>
<p>"Up the road or down the road?" asked Mrs. Bell.</p>
<p>"Down," said Bell.</p>
<p>I thought she breathed a sigh of relief.</p>
<p>When we had gone a hundred yards and the house became concealed by
trees, Bell guided me into the thick grove that lined the road and
back through them toward the house again. We stopped within twenty
yards of the house, concealed by the dark shadows. I wondered at
this maneuver. And then I heard in the distance coming down the
road beyond the house, the regular hoofbeats of a team of horses.
Bell held his watch in a ray of moonlight.</p>
<p>"On time, within a minute," he said. "That's George's way."</p>
<p>The team slowed up as it drew near the house and stopped in a
patch of black shadows. We saw the figure of a woman carrying a
heavy valise move swiftly from the other side of the house, and
hurry to the waiting vehicle. Then it rolled away briskly in the
direction from which it had come.</p>
<p>I looked at Bell inquiringly, I suppose. I certainly asked him no
question.</p>
<p>"She's running away with George," said Bell, simply. "He's kept me
posted about the progress of the scheme all along. She'll get a
divorce in six months and then George will marry her. He never
helps anybody halfway. It's all arranged between them."</p>
<p>I began to wonder what friendship was, after all.</p>
<p>When we went into the house, Bell began to talk easily on other
subjects; and I took his cue. By and by the big chance to buy out
the business in Mountain City came back to my mind and I began to
urge it upon him. Now that he was free, it would be easier for him
to make the move; and he was sure of a splendid bargain.</p>
<p>Bell was silent for some minutes, but when I looked at him I
fancied that he was thinking of something else—that he was not
considering the project.</p>
<p>"Why, no, Mr. Ames," he said, after a while, "I can't make that
deal. I'm awful thankful to you, though, for telling me about it.
But I've got to stay here. I can't go to Mountain City."</p>
<p>"Why?" I asked.</p>
<p>"Missis Bell," he replied, "won't live in Mountain City, She hates
the place and wouldn't go there. I've got to keep right on here in
Saltillo."</p>
<p>"Mrs. Bell!" I exclaimed, too puzzled to conjecture what he meant.</p>
<p>"I ought to explain," said Bell. "I know George and I know Mrs.
Bell. He's impatient in his ways. He can't stand things that fret
him, long, like I can. Six months, I give them—six months of
married life, and there'll be another disunion. Mrs. Bell will
come back to me. There's no other place for her to go. I've got to
stay here and wait. At the end of six months, I'll have to grab a
satchel and catch the first train. For George will be sending out
The Call."</p>
<h2>A DINNER AT ––––
<a name="footnotetag3"></a><a href="#footnote3">[3]</a></h2>
<blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[The story referred to in this skit appears
in "The Trimmed Lamp" under the same title—"The Badge of
Policeman O'Roon."]</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">The Adventures of an
Author With His Own Hero</span></p>
<p>All that day—in fact from the moment of his creation—Van Sweller
had conducted himself fairly well in my eyes. Of course I had had
to make many concessions; but in return he had been no less
considerate. Once or twice we had had sharp, brief contentions
over certain points of behavior; but, prevailingly, give and take
had been our rule.</p>
<p>His morning toilet provoked our first tilt. Van Sweller went about
it confidently.</p>
<p>"The usual thing, I suppose, old chap," he said, with a smile and
a yawn. "I ring for a b. and s., and then I have my tub. I splash
a good deal in the water, of course. You are aware that there are
two ways in which I can receive Tommy Carmichael when he looks in
to have a chat about polo. I can talk to him through the bathroom
door, or I can be picking at a grilled bone which my man has
brought in. Which would you prefer?"</p>
<p>I smiled with diabolic satisfaction at his coming discomfiture.</p>
<p>"Neither," I said. "You will make your appearance on the scene
when a gentleman should—after you are fully dressed, which
indubitably private function shall take place behind closed doors.
And I will feel indebted to you if, after you do appear, your
deportment and manners are such that it will not be necessary to
inform the public, in order to appease its apprehension, that you
have taken a bath."</p>
<p>Van Sweller slightly elevated his brows.</p>
<p>"Oh, very well," he said, a trifle piqued. "I
rather imagine it concerns you more than it
does me. Cut the 'tub' by all means, if you think best. But it has
been the usual thing, you know."</p>
<p>This was my victory; but after Van Sweller emerged from his
apartments in the "Beaujolie" I was vanquished in a dozen small
but well-contested skirmishes. I allowed him a cigar; but routed
him on the question of naming its brand. But he worsted me when I
objected to giving him a "coat unmistakably English in its cut." I
allowed him to "stroll down Broadway," and even permitted "passers
by" (God knows there's nowhere to pass but by) to "turn their
heads and gaze with evident admiration at his erect figure." I
demeaned myself, and, as a barber, gave him a "smooth, dark face
with its keen, frank eye, and firm jaw."</p>
<p>Later on he looked in at the club and saw Freddy Vavasour, polo
team captain, dawdling over grilled bone No. 1.</p>
<p>"Dear old boy," began Van Sweller; but in an instant I had seized
him by the collar and dragged him aside with the scantiest
courtesy.</p>
<p>"For heaven's sake talk like a man," I said, sternly. "Do you
think it is manly to use those mushy and inane forms of address?
That man is neither dear nor old nor a boy."</p>
<p>To my surprise Van Sweller turned upon me a look of frank
pleasure.</p>
<p>"I am glad to hear you say that," he said, heartily. "I used those
words because I have been forced to say them so often. They really
are contemptible. Thanks for correcting me, dear old boy."</p>
<p>Still I must admit that Van Sweller's conduct in the park that
morning was almost without flaw. The courage, the dash, the
modesty, the skill, and fidelity that he displayed atoned for
everything.</p>
<p>This is the way the story runs. Van Sweller has been a gentleman
member of the "Rugged Riders," the company that made a war with a
foreign country famous. Among his comrades was Lawrence O'Roon, a
man whom Van Sweller liked. A strange thing—and a hazardous one
in fiction—was that Van Sweller and O'Roon resembled each other
mightily in face, form, and general appearance. After the war Van
Sweller pulled wires, and O'Roon was made a mounted policeman.</p>
<p>Now, one night in New York there are commemorations and libations
by old comrades, and in the morning, Mounted Policeman O'Roon,
unused to potent liquids—another premise hazardous in
fiction—finds the earth bucking and bounding like a bronco, with
no stirrup into which he may insert foot and save his honor and
his badge.</p>
<p><i>Noblesse oblige?</i> Surely. So out along the driveways and bridle
paths trots Hudson Van Sweller in the uniform of his incapacitated
comrade, as like unto him as one French pea is unto a <i>petit
pois</i>.</p>
<p>It is, of course, jolly larks for Van Sweller, who has wealth and
social position enough for him to masquerade safely even as a
police commissioner doing his duty, if he wished to do so. But
society, not given to scanning the countenances of mounted
policemen, sees nothing unusual in the officer on the beat.</p>
<p>And then comes the runaway.</p>
<p>That is a fine scene—the swaying victoria, the impetuous, daft
horses plunging through the line of scattering vehicles, the
driver stupidly holding his broken reins, and the ivory-white face
of Amy Ffolliott, as she clings desperately with each slender
hand. Fear has come and gone: it has left her expression pensive
and just a little pleading, for life is not so bitter.</p>
<p>And then the clatter and swoop of Mounted Policeman Van Sweller!
Oh, it was—but the story has not yet been printed. When it is you
shall learn bow he sent his bay like a bullet after the imperilled
victoria. A Crichton, a Crœsus, and a Centaur in one, he hurls
the invincible combination into the chase.</p>
<p>When the story is printed you will admire the breathless scene
where Van Sweller checks the headlong team. And then he looks into
Amy Ffolliott's eyes and sees two things—the possibilities of a
happiness he has long sought, and a nascent promise of it. He is
unknown to her; but he stands in her sight illuminated by the
hero's potent glory, she his and he hers by all the golden, fond,
unreasonable laws of love and light literature.</p>
<p>Ay, that is a rich moment. And it will stir you to find Van
Sweller in that fruitful nick of time thinking of his comrade
O'Roon, who is cursing his gyrating bed and incapable legs in an
unsteady room in a West Side hotel while Van Sweller holds his
badge and his honor.</p>
<p>Van Sweller hears Miss Ffolliott's voice thrillingly asking the
name of her preserver. If Hudson Van Sweller, in policeman's
uniform, has saved the life of palpitating beauty in the
park—where is Mounted Policeman O'Roon, in whose territory the
deed is done? How quickly by a word can the hero reveal himself,
thus discarding his masquerade of ineligibility and doubling the
romance! But there is his friend!</p>
<p>Van Sweller touches his cap. "It's nothing, Miss," he says,
sturdily; "that's what we are paid for—to do our duty." And away
he rides. But the story does not end there.</p>
<p>As I have said, Van Sweller carried off the park scene to my
decided satisfaction. Even to me he was a hero when he foreswore,
for the sake of his friend, the romantic promise of his adventure.
It was later in the day, amongst the more exacting conventions
that encompass the society hero, when we had our liveliest
disagreement. At noon he went to O'Roon's room and found him far
enough recovered to return to his post, which he at once did.</p>
<p>At about six o'clock in the afternoon Van Sweller fingered his
watch, and flashed at me a brief look full of such shrewd cunning
that I suspected him at once.</p>
<p>"Time to dress for dinner, old man," he said, with exaggerated
carelessness.</p>
<p>"Very well," I answered, without giving him a clew to my
suspicions; "I will go with you to your rooms and see that you do
the thing properly. I suppose that every author must be a valet to
his own hero."</p>
<p>He affected cheerful acceptance of my somewhat officious proposal
to accompany him. I could see that he was annoyed by it, and that
fact fastened deeper in my mind the conviction that he was
meditating some act of treachery.</p>
<p>When he had reached his apartments he said to me, with a too
patronizing air: "There are, as you perhaps know, quite a number
of little distinguishing touches to be had out of the dressing
process. Some writers rely almost wholly upon them. I suppose that
I am to ring for my man, and that he is to enter noiselessly, with
an expressionless countenance."</p>
<p>"He may enter," I said, with decision, "and only enter. Valets do
not usually enter a room shouting college songs or with St.
Vitus's dance in their faces; so the contrary may be assumed
without fatuous or gratuitous asseveration."</p>
<p>"I must ask you to pardon me," continued Van Sweller, gracefully,
"for annoying you with questions, but some of your methods are a
little new to me. Shall I don a full-dress suit with an immaculate
white tie—or is there another tradition to be upset?"</p>
<p>"You will wear," I replied, "evening dress, such as a gentleman
wears. If it is full, your tailor should be responsible for its
bagginess. And I will leave it to whatever erudition you are
supposed to possess whether a white tie is rendered any whiter by
being immaculate. And I will leave it to the consciences of you
and your man whether a tie that is not white, and therefore not
immaculate, could possibly form any part of a gentleman's evening
dress. If not, then the perfect tie is included and understood in
the term 'dress,' and its expressed addition predicates either a
redundancy of speech or the spectacle of a man wearing two ties at
once."</p>
<p>With this mild but deserved rebuke I left Van Sweller in his
dressing-room, and waited for him in his library.</p>
<p>About an hour later his valet came out, and I heard him telephone
for an electric cab. Then out came Van Sweller, smiling, but with
that sly, secretive design in his eye that was puzzling me.</p>
<p>"I believe," he said easily, as he smoothed a glove, "that I
will drop in at ––––
<a name="footnotetag4"></a><a href="#footnote4">[4]</a> for
dinner."</p>
<p>I sprang up, angrily, at his words. This, then, was the paltry
trick he had been scheming to play upon me. I faced him with a
look so grim that even his patrician poise was flustered.</p>
<p>"You will never do so," I exclaimed, "with my permission. What
kind of a return is this," I continued, hotly, "for the favors I
have granted you? I gave you a 'Van' to your name when I might
have called you 'Perkins' or 'Simpson.' I have humbled myself so
far as to brag of your polo ponies, your automobiles, and the iron
muscles that you acquired when you were stroke-oar of your
'varsity eight,' or 'eleven,' whichever it is. I created you for
the hero of this story; and I will not submit to having you queer
it. I have tried to make you a typical young New York gentleman of
the highest social station and breeding. You have no reason to
complain of my treatment to you. Amy Ffolliott, the girl you are
to win, is a prize for any man to be thankful for, and cannot be
equalled for beauty—provided the story is illustrated by the
right artist. I do not understand why you should try to spoil
everything. I had thought you were a gentleman."</p>
<p>"What it is you are objecting to, old man?" asked Van Sweller, in
a surprised tone.</p>
<p>"To your dining at ––––
<a name="footnotetag5"></a><a href="#footnote5">[5]</a>,"
I answered. "The pleasure would be yours, no doubt,
but the responsibility would
fall upon me. You intend deliberately to make me out a tout for a
restaurant. Where you dine to-night has not the slightest
connection with the thread of our story. You know very well that
the plot requires that you be in front of the Alhambra Opera House
at 11:30 where you are to rescue Miss Ffolliott a second time as
the fire engine crashes into her cab. Until that time your
movements are immaterial to the reader. Why can't you dine out of
sight somewhere, as many a hero does, instead of insisting upon an
inapposite and vulgar exhibition of yourself?"</p>
<p>"My dear fellow," said Van Sweller, politely, but with a stubborn
tightening of his lips, "I'm sorry it doesn't please you, but
there's no help for it. Even a character in a story has rights
that an author cannot ignore. The hero of a story of New York
social life must dine at ––––
<a name="footnotetag6"></a><a href="#footnote6">[6]</a>
at least once during its action."</p>
<p>"'Must,'" I echoed, disdainfully; "why 'must'? Who demands it?"</p>
<p>"The magazine editors," answered Van Sweller, giving me a glance
of significant warning.</p>
<p>"But why?" I persisted.</p>
<p>"To please subscribers around Kankakee, Ill.," said Van Sweller,
without hesitation.</p>
<p>"How do you know these things?" I inquired, with sudden suspicion.
"You never came into existence until this morning. You are only a
character in fiction, anyway. I, myself, created you. How is it
possible for you to know anything?"</p>
<p>"Pardon me for referring to it," said Van Sweller, with a
sympathetic smile, "but I have been the hero of hundreds of
stories of this kind."</p>
<p>I felt a slow flush creeping into my face.</p>
<p>"I thought…" I stammered; "I was hoping… that
is… Oh, well, of course an absolutely original conception
in fiction is impossible in these days."</p>
<p>"Metropolitan types," continued Van Sweller, kindly, "do not offer
a hold for much originality. I've sauntered through every story in
pretty much the same way. Now and then the women writers have made
me cut some rather strange capers, for a gentleman; but the men
generally pass me along from one to another without much change.
But never yet, in any story, have I failed to dine
at ––––
<a name="footnotetag7"></a><a href="#footnote7">[7]</a>."</p>
<p>"You will fail this time," I said, emphatically.</p>
<p>"Perhaps so," admitted Van Sweller, looking out of the window into
the street below, "but if so it will be for the first time. The
authors all send me there. I fancy that many of them would have
liked to accompany me, but for the little matter of the expense."</p>
<p>"I say I will be touting for no restaurant," I repeated, loudly.
"You are subject to my will, and I declare that you shall not
appear of record this evening until the time arrives for you to
rescue Miss Ffolliott again. If the reading public cannot conceive
that you have dined during that interval at some one of the
thousands of establishments provided for that purpose that do not
receive literary advertisement it may suppose, for aught I care,
that you have gone fasting."</p>
<p>"Thank you," said Van Sweller, rather coolly, "you are hardly
courteous. But take care! it is at your own risk that you attempt
to disregard a fundamental principle in metropolitan fiction—one
that is dear alike to author and reader. I shall, of course attend
to my duty when it comes time to rescue your heroine; but I warn
you that it will be your loss if you fail to send me to-night to
dine at ––––
<a name="footnotetag8"></a><a href="#footnote8">[8]</a>."</p>
<p>"I will take the consequences if there are to be any," I replied.
"I am not yet come to be sandwich man for an eating-house."</p>
<p>I walked over to a table where I had left my cane and gloves. I
heard the whirr of the alarm in the cab below and I turned
quickly. Van Sweller was gone.</p>
<p>I rushed down the stairs and out to the curb. An empty hansom was
just passing. I hailed the driver excitedly.</p>
<p>"See that auto cab halfway down the block?" I shouted. "Follow it.
Don't lose sight of it for an instant, and I will give you two
dollars!"</p>
<p>If I only had been one of the characters in my story instead of
myself I could easily have offered $10 or $25 or even $100. But $2
was all I felt justified in expending, with fiction at its present
rates.</p>
<p>The cab driver, instead of lashing his animal into a foam,
proceeded at a deliberate trot that suggested a by-the-hour
arrangement.</p>
<p>But I suspected Van Sweller's design; and when we lost sight of
his cab I ordered my driver to proceed at once to
––––
<a name="footnotetag9"></a><a href="#footnote9">[9]</a>.</p>
<p>I found Van Sweller at a table under a palm, just glancing over
the menu, with a hopeful waiter hovering at his elbow.</p>
<p>"Come with me," I said, inexorably. "You will not give me the slip
again. Under my eye you shall remain until 11:30."</p>
<p>Van Sweller countermanded the order for his dinner, and arose to
accompany me. He could scarcely do less. A fictitious character is
but poorly equipped for resisting a hungry but live author who
comes to drag him forth from a restaurant. All he said was: "You
were just in time; but I think you are making a mistake. You
cannot afford to ignore the wishes of the great reading public."</p>
<p>I took Van Sweller to my own rooms—to my room. He had never seen
anything like it before.</p>
<p>"Sit on that trunk," I said to him, "while I observe whether the
landlady is stalking us. If she is not, I will get things at a
delicatessen store below, and cook something for you in a pan over
the gas jet. It will not be so bad. Of course nothing of this will
appear in the story."</p>
<p>"Jove! old man!" said Van Sweller, looking about him with
interest, "this is a jolly little closet you live in! Where the
devil do you sleep?—Oh, that pulls down! And I say—what is this
under the corner of the carpet?—Oh, a frying pan! I see—clever
idea! Fancy cooking over the gas! What larks it will be!"</p>
<p>"Think of anything you could eat?" I asked; "try a chop, or what?"</p>
<p>"Anything," said Van Sweller, enthusiastically, "except a grilled
bone."</p>
<p>Two weeks afterward the postman brought me a large, fat envelope.
I opened it, and took out something that I had seen before, and
this typewritten letter from a magazine that encourages society
fiction:</p>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p>Your short story, "The Badge of Policeman O'Roon," is herewith
   returned.</p>
<p>We are sorry that it has been unfavorably passed upon; but it
seems to lack in some of the essential requirements of our
publication.</p>
<p>The story is splendidly constructed; its style is strong and
inimitable, and its action and character-drawing deserve the
highest praise. As a story <i>per se</i> it has merit beyond anything
that we have read for some time. But, as we have said, it fails
to come up to some of the standards we have set.</p>
<p>Could you not re-write the story, and inject into it the social
atmosphere, and return it to us for further consideration? It is
suggested to you that you have the hero, Van Sweller, drop in for
luncheon or dinner once or twice at ––––
<a name="footnotetag10"></a><a href="#footnote10">[10]</a>
or at the ––––
<a name="footnotetag11"></a><a href="#footnote11">[11]</a>
which will be in line with the changes desired.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="ind15">Very truly yours,</span><span class="ind15"><span class="smallcaps">The Editors</span>.</span></p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<h2>SOUND AND FURY</h2>
<blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[O. Henry wrote this for <i>Ainslee's
Magazine</i>, where it appeared in March, 1903.]</p>
</blockquote>
<div class="center">
<p class="noindent">PERSONS OF THE DRAMA</p>
<table class="med">
<tr><td><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span></td><td align="right"><i>An Author</i></td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore          </span></td><td align="right"><i>An Amanuensis</i></td></tr>
</table>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps"><span class="xlarge">Scene</span></span>—<i>Workroom
of</i> Mr. Penne's <i>popular novel factory</i>.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>—Good morning, Miss Lore.
Glad to see you so prompt. We should finish that June installment for
the <i>Epoch</i> to-day. Leverett is crowding me for it. Are you
quite ready? We will resume where we left off yesterday.
(<i>Dictates</i>.) "Kate, with a sigh, rose from his knees, and—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Excuse me; you mean
"rose from <i>her</i> knees," instead of "his," don't you?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>—Er—no—"his," if you
please. It is the love scene in
the garden. (<i>Dictates</i>.) "Rose from his knees where, blushing
with youth's bewitching coyness, she had rested for a moment after
Cortland had declared his love. The hour was one of supreme and
tender joy. When Kate—scene that Cortland never—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Excuse me; but wouldn't
it be more grammatical to say
"when Kate <i>saw</i>," instead of "seen"?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>—The context will
explain. (<i>Dictates</i>.) "When Kate—scene
that Cortland never forgot—came tripping across the lawn it
seemed to him the fairest sight that earth had ever offered to his
gaze."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>dictates</i>)—"Kate
had abandoned herself to the joy of
her new-found love so completely, that no shadow of her former
grief was cast upon it. Cortland, with his arm firmly entwined
about her waist, knew nothing of her sighs—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Goodness! If he
couldn't tell her size with his arm around—</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>frowning</i>)—"Of
her sighs and tears of the previous night."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>dictates</i>)—"To
Cortland the chief charm of this girl
was her look of innocence and unworldiness. Never had nun—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—How about
changing that to "never had any?"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>
(<i>emphatically</i>)—"Never had nun in cloistered cell a face
more sweet and pure."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>dictates</i>)—"But
now Kate must hasten back to the house
lest her absence be discovered. After a fond farewell she turned
and sped lightly away. Cortland's gaze followed her. He watched
her rise—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Excuse me, Mr.
Penne; but how could he watch her eyes
while her back was turned toward him?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>with extreme
politeness</i>)—Possibly you would gather my
meaning more intelligently if you would wait for the conclusion of
the sentence. (<i>Dictates</i>.) "Watched her rise as gracefully
as a fawn as she mounted the eastern terrace."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>dictates</i>)—"And
yet Cortland's position was so far
above that of this rustic maiden that he dreaded to consider the
social upheaval that would ensue should he marry her. In no
uncertain tones the traditional voices of his caste and world
cried out loudly to him to let her go. What should follow—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span> (<i>looking up
with a start</i>)—I'm sure I can't say, Mr. Penne.
Unless (<i>with a giggle</i>) you would want to add "Gallegher."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>coldly</i>)—Pardon
me. I was not seeking to impose upon
you the task of a collaborator. Kindly consider the question a
part of the text.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>dictates</i>)—"On
one side was love and Kate; on the other
side his heritage of social position and family pride. Would love
win? Love, that the poets tell us will last forever! (<i>Perceives
that Miss Lore looks fatigued, and looks at his watch.</i>) That's a
good long stretch. Perhaps we'd better knock off a bit."</p>
<p>(Miss Lore <i>does not reply</i>.)</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>—I said, Miss
Lore, we've been at it quite a long time—
wouldn't you like to knock off for a while?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh! Were you
addressing me before? I put what you said
down. I thought it belonged in the story. It seemed to fit
in all right. Oh, no; I'm not tired.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>—Very well,
then, we will continue. (<i>Dictates</i>.) "In
spite of these qualms and doubts, Cortland was a happy man. That
night at the club he silently toasted Kate's bright eyes in a
bumper of the rarest vintage. Afterward he set out for a stroll
with, as Kate on—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Excuse me,
Mr. Penne, for venturing a suggestion; but
don't you think you might state that in a less coarse manner?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>
(<i>astounded</i>)—Wh-wh—I'm afraid I fail to understand you.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—His condition.
Why not say he was "full" or
"intoxicated"? It would sound much more elegant than the way you
express it.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>still darkly
wandering</i>)—Will you kindly point out,
Miss Lore, where I have intimated that Cortland was "full," if you
prefer that word?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span> (<i>calmly
consulting her stenographic notes</i>)—It is right
here, word for word. (Reads.) "Afterward he set out for a stroll
with a skate on."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>with
peculiar emphasis</i>)—Ah! And now will you kindly
take down the expurgated phrase? (<i>Dictates</i>.) "Afterward
he set out for a stroll with, as Kate on one occasion had
fancifully told him, her spirit leaning upon his arm."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>
(<i>dictates</i>)—Chapter thirty-four. Heading—"What Kate
Found in the Garden." "That fragrant summer morning brought
gracious tasks to all. The bees were at the honeysuckle blossoms
on the porch. Kate, singing a little song, was training the
riotous branches of her favorite woodbine. The sun, himself, had
rows—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Shall
I say "had risen"?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>very
slowly and with desperate
deliberation</i>)—"The—sun—himself—had—rows—of—blushing—pinks—and—hollyhocks—and—hyacinths—waiting—that—he—might—dry—their—dew-drenched—cups."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>dictates</i>)—"The
earliest trolley, scattering the birds
from its pathway like some marauding cat, brought Cortland over
from Oldport. He had forgotten his fair—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Hm! Wonder how
he got the conductor to—</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>
(<i>very loudly</i>)—"Forgotten his fair and roseate visions
of the night in the practical light of the sober morn."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>
(<i>dictates</i>)—"He greeted her with his usual smile and
manner. 'See the waves,' he cried, pointing to the heaving waters
of the sea, 'ever wooing and returning to the rockbound shore.'"
"'Ready to break,' Kate said, with—"</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—My! One
evening he has his arm around her, and the next
morning he's ready to break her head! Just like a man!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>with
suspicious calmness</i>)—There are times, Miss Lore,
when a man becomes so far exasperated that even a woman—But
suppose we finish the sentence. (<i>Dictates</i>.) "'Ready to break,'
Kate said, with the thrilling look of a soul-awakened woman, 'into
foam and spray, destroying themselves upon the shore they love so
well."</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Oh!</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>
(<i>dictates</i>)—"Cortland, in Kate's presence heard faintly
the voice of caution. Thirty years had not cooled his ardor. It
was in his power to bestow great gifts upon this girl. He still
retained the beliefs that he had at twenty." (<i>To Miss Lore,
wearily</i>) I think that will be enough for the present.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>
(<i>wisely</i>)—Well, if he had the twenty that he believed he
had, it might buy her a rather nice one.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span>
(<i>faintly</i>)—The last sentence was my own. We will
discontinue for the day, Miss Lore.</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Miss Lore</span>—Shall
I come again to-morrow?</p>
<p><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Penne</span> (<i>helpless
under the spell</i>)—If you will be so good.</p>
<p>(<i>Exit</i> Miss Lore.)</p>
<p class="noindent">ASBESTOS CURTAIN</p>
<h2>TICTOCQ</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[These two farcical stories about Tictocq
appeared in <i>The Rolling Stone</i>. They are reprinted here
with all of their local references because, written hurriedly
and for neighborly reading, they nevertheless have an interest
for the admirer of O. Henry. They were written in
1894.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<div class="center">
<p class="noindent">THE GREAT FRENCH DETECTIVE, IN
AUSTIN</p>
</div>
<i>A Successful Political Intrigue</i>
<h4>CHAPTER I</h4>
<p>It is not generally known that Tictocq, the famous French
detective, was in Austin last week. He registered at the Avenue
Hotel under an assumed name, and his quiet and reserved manners
singled him out at once for one not to be singled out.</p>
<p>No one knows why he came to Austin, but to one or two he
vouchsafed the information that his mission was an important one
from the French Government.</p>
<p>One report is that the French Minister of State has discovered an
old statute among the laws of the empire, resulting from a treaty
between the Emperor Charlemagne and Governor Roberts which
expressly provides for the north gate of the Capital grounds being
kept open, but this is merely a conjecture.</p>
<p>Last Wednesday afternoon a well-dressed gentleman knocked at the
door of Tictocq's room in the hotel.</p>
<p>The detective opened the door.</p>
<p>"Monsieur Tictocq, I believe," said the gentleman.</p>
<p>"You will see on the register that I sign my name Q. X. Jones,"
said Tictocq, "and gentlemen would understand that I wish to be
known as such. If you do not like being referred to as no
gentleman, I will give you satisfaction any time after July 1st,
and fight Steve O'Donnell, John McDonald, and Ignatius Donnelly in
the meantime if you desire."</p>
<p>"I do not mind it in the least," said the gentleman. "In fact, I
am accustomed to it. I am Chairman of the Democratic Executive
Committee, Platform No. 2, and I have a friend in trouble. I knew
you were Tictocq from your resemblance to yourself."</p>
<p>"Entrez vous," said the detective.</p>
<p>The gentleman entered and was handed a chair.</p>
<p>"I am a man of few words," said Tictoq. "I will help your friend
if possible. Our countries are great friends. We have given you
Lafayette and French fried potatoes. You have given us California
champagne and—taken back Ward McAllister. State your case."</p>
<p>"I will be very brief," said the visitor. "In room No. 76 in this
hotel is stopping a prominent Populist Candidate. He is alone.
Last night some one stole his socks. They cannot be found. If they
are not recovered, his party will attribute their loss to the
Democracy. They will make great capital of the burglary, although
I am sure it was not a political move at all. The socks must be
recovered. You are the only man that can do it."</p>
<p>Tictocq bowed.</p>
<p>"Am I to have carte blanche to question every person connected
with the hotel?"</p>
<p>"The proprietor has already been spoken to. Everything and
everybody is at your service."</p>
<p>Tictocq consulted his watch.</p>
<p>"Come to this room to-morrow afternoon at 6 o'clock
with the landlord, the Populist Candidate,
and any other witnesses elected from both parties, and I will
return the socks."</p>
<p>"Bien, Monsieur; schlafen sie wohl."</p>
<p>"Au revoir."</p>
<p>The Chairman of the Democratic Executive Committee, Platform No.2,
bowed courteously and withdrew.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>Tictocq sent for the bell boy.</p>
<p>"Did you go to room 76 last night?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"Who was there?"</p>
<p>"An old hayseed what come on the 7:25."</p>
<p>"What did he want?"</p>
<p>"The bouncer."</p>
<p>"What for?"</p>
<p>"To put the light out."</p>
<p>"Did you take anything while in the room?"</p>
<p>"No, he didn't ask me."</p>
<p>"What is your name?"</p>
<p>"Jim."</p>
<p>"You can go."</p>
<h4>CHAPTER II</h4>
<p>The drawing-rooms of one of the most magnificent private
residences in Austin are a blaze of lights. Carriages line the
streets in front, and from gate to doorway is spread a velvet
carpet, on which the delicate feet of the guests may tread.</p>
<p>The occasion is the entrée into society of one
of the fairest buds in the City of the Violet
Crown. The rooms are filled with the
culture, the beauty, the youth and fashion of society. Austin
society is acknowledged to be the wittiest, the most select, and
the highest bred to be found southwest of Kansas City.</p>
<p>Mrs. Rutabaga St. Vitus, the hostess, is accustomed to draw around
her a circle of talent, and beauty, rarely equalled anywhere. Her
evenings come nearer approaching the dignity of a salon than any
occasion, except, perhaps, a Tony Faust and Marguerite reception
at the Iron Front.</p>
<p>Miss St. Vitus, whose advent into society's maze was heralded by
such an auspicious display of hospitality, is a slender brunette,
with large, lustrous eyes, a winning smile, and a charming
ingénue manner. She wears a china silk, cut princesse,
with diamond ornaments, and a couple of towels inserted
in the back to conceal prominence of shoulder blades.
She is chatting easily and
naturally on a plush covered tête-à-tête
with Harold St. Clair, the agent for a Minneapolis
pants company. Her friend and schoolmate, Elsie Hicks,
who married three drummers in one day, a week or two
before, and won a wager of two dozen bottles of
Budweiser from the handsome and talented young hack-driver, Bum
Smithers, is promenading in and out the low French windows with
Ethelbert Windup, the popular young candidate for hide inspector,
whose name is familiar to every one who reads police court
reports.</p>
<p>Somewhere, concealed by shrubbery, a band is playing, and during
the pauses in conversation, onions can be smelt frying in the
kitchen.</p>
<p>Happy laughter rings out from ruby lips, handsome faces grow
tender as they bend over white necks and drooping beads; timid
eyes convey things that lips dare not speak, and beneath silken
bodice and broadcloth, hearts beat time to the sweet notes of
"Love's Young Dream."</p>
<p>"And where have you been for some time past, you recreant
cavalier?" says Miss St. Vitus to Harold St. Clair. "Have you been
worshipping at another shrine? Are you recreant to your whilom
friends? Speak, Sir Knight, and defend yourself."</p>
<p>"Oh, come off," says Harold, in his deep, musical baritone; "I've
been having a devil of a time fitting pants on a lot of bow-legged
jays from the cotton-patch. Got knobs on their legs, some of 'em
big as gourds, and all expect a fit. Did you every try to measure
a bow-legged—I mean—can't you imagine what a jam-swizzled time I
have getting pants to fit 'em? Business dull too, nobody wants 'em
over three dollars."</p>
<p>"You witty boy," says Miss St. Vitus. "Just as full of bon mots
and clever sayings as ever. What do you take now?"</p>
<p>"Oh, beer."</p>
<p>"Give me your arm and let's go into the drawing-room and draw a
cork. I'm chewing a little cotton myself."</p>
<p>Arm in arm, the handsome couple pass across the room, the cynosure
of all eyes. Luderic Hetherington, the rising and gifted
night-watchman at the Lone Star slaughter house, and Mabel Grubb,
the daughter of the millionaire owner of the Humped-backed Camel
saloon, are standing under the oleanders as they go by.</p>
<p>"She is very beautiful," says Luderic.</p>
<p>"Rats," says Mabel.</p>
<p>A keen observer would have noted all this time the figure of a
solitary man who seemed to avoid the company but by adroit
changing of his position, and perfectly cool and self-possessed
manner, avoided drawing any especial attention to himself.</p>
<p>The lion of the evening is Herr Professor Ludwig von Bum, the
pianist.</p>
<p>He had been found drinking beer in a saloon on East Pecan Street
by Colonel St. Vitus about a week before, and according to the
Austin custom in such cases, was invited home by the colonel, and
the next day accepted into society, with large music classes at
his service.</p>
<p>Professor von Bum is playing the lovely symphony in G minor from
Beethoven's "Songs Without Music." The grand chords fill the room
with exquisite harmony. He plays the extremely difficult passages
in the obligato home run in a masterly manner, and when he
finishes with that grand te deum with arpeggios on the side, there
is that complete hush in the room that is dearer to the artist's
heart than the loudest applause.</p>
<p>The professor looks around.</p>
<p>The room is empty.</p>
<p>Empty with the exception of Tictocq, the great French detective,
who springs from behind a mass of tropical plants to his side.</p>
<p>The professor rises in alarm.</p>
<p>"Hush," says Tictocq: "Make no noise at all. You have already made
enough."</p>
<p>Footsteps are heard outside.</p>
<p>"Be quick," says Tictocq: "give me those socks. There is not a
moment to spare."</p>
<p>"Vas sagst du?"</p>
<p>"Ah, he confesses," says Tictocq. "No socks will do but those you
carried off from the Populist Candidate's room."</p>
<p>The company is returning, no longer hearing the music.</p>
<p>Tictooq hesitates not. He seizes the professor, throws him upon
the floor, tears off his shoes and socks, and escapes with the
latter through the open window into the garden.</p>
<h4>CHAPTER III</h4>
<p>Tictocq's room in the Avenue Hotel.</p>
<p>A knock is heard at the door.</p>
<p>Tictocq opens it and looks at his watch.</p>
<p>"Ah," he says, "it is just six. Entrez, Messieurs."</p>
<p>The messieurs entrez. There are seven of them; the Populist
Candidate who is there by invitation, not knowing for what
purpose; the chairman of the Democratic Executive Committee,
platform No. 2, the hotel proprietor, and three or four Democrats
and Populists, as near as could be found out.</p>
<p>"I don't know," begins the Populist Candidate, "what in the
h––––"</p>
<p>"Excuse me," says Tictocq, firmly. "You will oblige me by keeping
silent until I make my report. I have been employed in this case,
and I have unravelled it. For the honor of France I request that I
be heard with attention."</p>
<p>"Certainly," says the chairman; "we will be pleased to listen."</p>
<p>Tictocq stands in the centre of the room. The electric light burns
brightly above him. He seems the incarnation of alertness, vigor,
cleverness, and cunning.</p>
<p>The company seat themselves in chairs along the wall.</p>
<p>"When informed of the robbery," begins Tictocq, "I first
questioned the bell boy. He knew nothing. I went to the police
headquarters. They knew nothing. I invited one of them to the bar
to drink. He said there used to be a little colored boy in the
Tenth Ward who stole things and kept them for recovery by the
police, but failed to be at the place agreed upon for arrest one
time, and had been sent to jail.</p>
<p>"I then began to think. I reasoned. No man, said I, would carry a
Populist's socks in his pocket without wrapping them up. He would
not want to do so in the hotel. He would want a paper. Where would
he get one? At the <i>Statesman</i> office, of course. I went there.
A young man with his hair combed down on his forehead sat behind the
desk. I knew he was writing society items, for a young lady's
slipper, a piece of cake, a fan, a half emptied bottle of
cocktail, a bunch of roses, and a police whistle lay on the desk
before him.</p>
<p>"'Can you tell me if a man purchased a paper here in the last three
months?' I said.</p>
<p>"'Yes,' he replied; 'we sold one last night.</p>
<p>"'Can you describe the man?'</p>
<p>"'Accurately. He had blue whiskers, a wart between his shoulder
blades, a touch of colic, and an occupation tax on his breath.'</p>
<p>"'Which way did he go?'</p>
<p>"'Out.'</p>
<p>"I then went—"</p>
<p>"Wait a minute," said the Populist Candidate, rising; "I don't see
why in the h––––"</p>
<p>"Once more I must beg that you will be silent," said Tictocq,
rather sharply. "You should not interrupt me in the midst of my
report."</p>
<p>"I made one false arrest," continued Tictocq. "I was passing two
finely dressed gentlemen on the street, when one of them remarked
that he had 'stole his socks.' I handcuffed him and dragged him to
a lighted store, when his companion explained to me that he was
somewhat intoxicated and his tongue was not entirely manageable.
He had been speaking of some business transaction, and what he
intended to say was that he had 'sold his stocks.'</p>
<p>"I then released him.</p>
<p>"An hour afterward I passed a saloon, and saw this Professor von
Bum drinking beer at a table. I knew him in Paris. I said 'here is
my man.' He worshipped Wagner, lived on limburger cheese, beer,
and credit, and would have stolen anybody's socks. I shadowed him
to the reception at Colonel St. Vitus's, and in an opportune
moment I seized him and tore the socks from his feet. There they
are."</p>
<p>With a dramatic gesture, Tictocq threw a pair of dingy socks upon
the table, folded his arms, and threw back his head.</p>
<p>With a loud cry of rage, the Populist Candidate sprang once more
to his feet.</p>
<p>"Gol darn it! I WILL say what I want to. I—"</p>
<p>The two other Populists in the room gazed at him coldly and
sternly.</p>
<p>"Is this tale true?" they demanded of the Candidate.</p>
<p>"No, by gosh, it ain't!" he replied, pointing a trembling finger
at the Democratic Chairman. "There stands the man who has
concocted the whole scheme. It is an infernal, unfair political
trick to lose votes for our party. How far has thing gone?" he
added, turning savagely to the detective.</p>
<p>"All the newspapers have my written report on the matter, and the
<i>Statesman</i> will have it in plate matter next week," said
Tictocq, complacently.</p>
<p>"All is lost!" said the Populists, turning toward the door.</p>
<p>"For God's sake, my friends," pleaded the Candidate, following
them; "listen to me; I swear before high heaven that I never wore
a pair of socks in my life. It is all a devilish campaign lie."</p>
<p>The Populists turn their backs.</p>
<p>"The damage is already done," they said. "The people have heard
the story. You have yet time to withdraw decently before the
race."</p>
<p>All left the room except Tictocq and the Democrats.</p>
<p>"Let's all go down and open a bottle of fizz on the Finance
Committee," said the Chairman of the Executive Committee, Platform
No. 2.</p>
<h2>TRACKED TO DOOM</h2>
<div class="center">
<p class="noindent">ORTHE MYSTERY OF THE RUE DE PEYCHAUD</p>
</div>
<p>'Tis midnight in Paris.</p>
<p>A myriad of lamps that line the Champs Elysées and the
Rouge et Noir, cast their reflection in the dark waters of
the Seine as it flows gloomily past the Place Vendôme
and the black walls of the Convent Notadam.</p>
<p>The great French capital is astir.</p>
<p>It is the hour when crime and vice and wickedness reign.</p>
<p>Hundreds of fiacres drive madly through the streets conveying
women, flashing with jewels and as beautiful as dreams, from opera
and concert, and the little bijou supper rooms of the Café
Tout le Temps are filled with laughing groups, while bon mots,
persiflage and repartee fly upon the air—the jewels of thought
and conversation.</p>
<p>Luxury and poverty brush each other in the streets. The homeless
gamin, begging a sou with which to purchase a bed, and the
spendthrift roué, scattering golden louis d'or,
tread the same pavement.</p>
<p>When other cities sleep, Paris has just begun her wild revelry.</p>
<p>The first scene of our story is a cellar beneath the Rue de
Peychaud.</p>
<p>The room is filled with smoke of pipes, and is stifling with the
reeking breath of its inmates. A single flaring gas jet dimly
lights the scene, which is one Rembrandt or Moreland and Keisel
would have loved to paint.</p>
<p>A garçon is selling absinthe to such of the motley
crowd as have a few sous, dealing it out in niggardly portions
in broken teacups.</p>
<p>Leaning against the bar is Carnaignole Cusheau—generally known as
the Gray Wolf.</p>
<p>He is the worst man in Paris.</p>
<p>He is more than four feet ten in height, and his sharp, ferocious
looking face and the mass of long, tangled gray hair that covers
his face and head, have earned for him the name he bears.</p>
<p>His striped blouse is wide open at the neck and falls outside of
his dingy leather trousers. The handle of a deadly looking knife
protrudes from his belt. One stroke of its blade would open a box
of the finest French sardines.</p>
<p>"Voilà, Gray Wolf," cries Couteau, the bartender. "How
many victims to-day? There is no blood upon your hands. Has the
Gray Wolf forgotten how to bite?"</p>
<p>"Sacrè Bleu, Mille Tonnerre, by George," hisses the
Gray Wolf. "Monsieur Couteau, you are bold indeed to speak
to me thus.</p>
<p>"By Ventre St. Gris! I have not even dined to-day. Spoils indeed.
There is no living in Paris now. But one rich American have I
garroted in a fortnight.</p>
<p>"Bah! those Democrats. They have ruined the country. With their
income tax and their free trade, they have destroyed the
millionaire business. Carrambo! Diable!
D––––n it!"</p>
<p>"Hist!" suddenly says Chamounix the rag-picker, who is worth
20,000,000 francs, "some one comes!"</p>
<p>The cellar door opened and a man crept softly down the rickety
steps. The crowd watches him with silent awe.</p>
<p>He went to the bar, laid his card on the counter, bought a drink
of absinthe, and then drawing from his pocket a little mirror, set
it up on the counter and proceeded to don a false beard and hair
and paint his face into wrinkles, until he closely resembled an
old man seventy-one years of age.</p>
<p>He then went into a dark corner and watched the crowd of people
with sharp, ferret-like eyes.</p>
<p>Gray Wolf slipped cautiously to the bar and examined the card left
by the newcomer.</p>
<p>"Holy Saint Bridget!" he exclaims. "It is Tictocq, the detective."</p>
<p>Ten minutes later a beautiful woman enters the cellar. Tenderly
nurtured, and accustomed to every luxury that money could procure,
she had, when a young vivandière at the Convent of
Saint Susan de la Montarde, run away with the Gray Wolf,
fascinated by his many crimes and the knowledge that his
business never allowed him to scrape his feet in the hall
or snore.</p>
<p>"Parbleu, Marie," snarls the Gray Wolf. "Que voulez vous?
Avez-vous le beau cheval de mon frère, oule joli
chien de votre père?"</p>
<p>"No, no, Gray Wolf," shouts the motley group of assassins, rogues
and pickpockets, even their hardened hearts appalled at his
fearful words. "Mon Dieu! You cannot be so cruel!"</p>
<p>"Tiens!" shouts the Gray Wolf, now maddened to desperation, and
drawing his gleaming knife. "Voilà! Canaille! Tout
le monde, carte blanche enbonpoint sauve que
peut entre nous revenez nous a nous moutons!"</p>
<p>The horrified sans-culottes shrink back in terror as
the Gray Wolf seizes Maria by the hair and cuts her into
twenty-nine pieces, each exactly the same size.</p>
<p>As he stands with reeking hands above the corpse, amid a deep
silence, the old, gray-bearded man who has been watching the scene
springs forward, tears off his false beard and locks, and Tictocq,
the famous French detective, stands before them.</p>
<p>Spellbound and immovable, the denizens of the cellar gaze at the
greatest modern detective as he goes about the customary duties of
his office.</p>
<p>He first measures the distance from the murdered woman to a point
on the wall, then he takes down the name of the bartender and the
day of the month and the year. Then drawing from his pocket a
powerful microscope, he examines a little of the blood that stands
upon the floor in little pools.</p>
<p>"Mon Dieu!" he mutters, "it is as I feared—human blood."</p>
<p>He then enters rapidly in a memorandum book the result of his
investigations, and leaves the cellar.</p>
<p>Tictocq bends his rapid steps in the direction of the headquarters
of the Paris gendarmerie, but suddenly pausing, he strikes his
hand upon his brow with a gesture of impatience.</p>
<p>"Mille tonnerre," he mutters. "I should have asked the name of
that man with the knife in his hand."</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>It is reception night at the palace of the Duchess Valerie du
Bellairs.</p>
<p>The apartments are flooded with a mellow light from paraffine
candles in solid silver candelabra.</p>
<p>The company is the most aristocratic and wealthy in Paris.</p>
<p>Three or four brass bands are playing behind a
portière between the coal shed, and also behind time.
Footmen in gay-laced livery bring in beer noiselessly
and carry out apple-peelings dropped by the guests.</p>
<p>Valerie, seventh Duchess du Bellairs, leans back on a solid gold
ottoman on eiderdown cushions, surrounded by the wittiest, the
bravest, and the handsomest courtiers in the capital.</p>
<p>"Ah, madame," said the Prince Champvilliers, of Palais Royale,
corner of Seventy-third Street, "as Montesquiaux says, 'Rien de
plus bon tutti frutti'—Youth seems your inheritance. You are
to-night the most beautiful, the wittiest in your own salon. I can
scarce believe my own senses, when I remember that thirty-one
years ago you—"</p>
<p>"Saw it off!" says the Duchess peremptorily.</p>
<p>The Prince bows low, and drawing a jewelled dagger, stabs himself
to the heart.</p>
<p>"The displeasure of your grace is worse than death," he says, as
he takes his overcoat and hat from a corner of the mantelpiece and
leaves the room.</p>
<p>"Voilà," says Bèebè Francillon,
fanning herself languidly. "That is the way with men.
Flatter them, and they kiss your hand. Loose but a
moment the silken leash that holds them captive
through their vanity and self-opinionativeness,
and the son-of-a-gun gets on his ear at once.
The devil go with him, I say."</p>
<p>"Ah, mon Princesse," sighs the Count Pumpernickel, stooping and
whispering with eloquent eyes into her ear. "You are too hard upon
us. Balzac says, 'All women are not to themselves what no one else
is to another.' Do you not agree with him?"</p>
<p>"Cheese it!" says the Princess. "Philosophy palls upon me. I'll
shake you."</p>
<p>"Hosses?" says the Count.</p>
<p>Arm and arm they go out to the salon au Beurre.</p>
<p>Armande de Fleury, the young pianissimo danseuse from the Folies
Bergère is about to sing.</p>
<p>She slightly clears her throat and lays a voluptuous cud of
chewing gum upon the piano as the first notes of the accompaniment
ring through the salon.</p>
<p>As she prepares to sing, the Duchess du Bellairs grasps the arm of
her ottoman in a vice-like grip, and she watches with an
expression of almost anguished suspense.</p>
<p>She scarcely breathes.</p>
<p>Then, as Armande de Fleury, before uttering a note, reels, wavers,
turns white as snow and falls dead upon the floor, the Duchess
breathes a sigh of relief.</p>
<p>The Duchess had poisoned her.</p>
<p>Then the guests crowd about the piano, gazing with bated breath,
and shuddering as they look upon the music rack and observe that
the song that Armande came so near singing is "Sweet Marie."</p>
<p>Twenty minutes later a dark and muffled figure was seen to emerge
from a recess in the mullioned wall of the Arc de Triomphe and
pass rapidly northward.</p>
<p>It was no other than Tictocq, the detective.</p>
<p>The network of evidence was fast being drawn about the murderer of
Marie Cusheau.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>It is midnight on the steeple of the Cathedral of Notadam.</p>
<p>It is also the same time at other given points in the vicinity.</p>
<p>The spire of the Cathedral is 20,000 feet above the pavement, and
a casual observer, by making a rapid mathematical calculation,
would have readily perceived that this Cathedral is, at least,
double the height of others that measure only 10,000 feet.</p>
<p>At the summit of the spire there is a little wooden platform on
which there is room for but one man to stand.</p>
<p>Crouching on this precarious footing, which swayed, dizzily with
every breeze that blew, was a man closely muffled, and disguised
as a wholesale grocer.</p>
<p>Old François Beongfallong, the great astronomer, who
is studying the sidereal spheres from
his attic window in the Rue de Bologny,
shudders as he turns his telescope upon the solitary figure upon
the spire.</p>
<p>"Sacrè Bleu!" he hisses between his new celluloid
teeth. "It is Tictocq, the detective. I wonder whom he
is following now?"</p>
<p>While Tictocq is watching with lynx-like eyes the hill of
Montmartre, he suddenly hears a heavy breathing beside him, and
turning, gazes into the ferocious eyes of the Gray Wolf.</p>
<p>Carnaignole Cusheau had put on his W. U. Tel. Co. climbers and
climbed the steeple.</p>
<p>"Parbleu, monsieur," says Tictocq. "To whom am I indebted for the
honor of this visit?"</p>
<p>The Gray Wolf smiled softly and depreciatingly.</p>
<p>"You are Tictocq, the detective?" he said.</p>
<p>"I am."</p>
<p>"Then listen. I am the murderer of Marie Cusheau. She was my wife
and she had cold feet and ate onions. What was I to do? Yet life
is sweet to me. I do not wish to be guillotined. I have heard that
you are on my track. Is it true that the case is in your hands?"</p>
<p>"It is."</p>
<p>"Thank le bon Dieu, then, I am saved."</p>
<p>The Gray Wolf carefully adjusts the climbers on his feet and
descends the spire.</p>
<p>Tictocq takes out his notebook and writes in it.</p>
<p>"At last," he says, "I have a clue."</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>Monsieur le Compte Carnaignole Cusheau, once known as the Gray
Wolf, stands in the magnificent drawing-room of his palace on East
47th Street.</p>
<p>Three days after his confession to Tictocq, he happened to look in
the pockets of a discarded pair of pants and found twenty million
francs in gold.</p>
<p>Suddenly the door opens and Tictocq, the detective, with a dozen
gensd'arme, enters the room.</p>
<p>"You are my prisoner," says the detective.</p>
<p>"On what charge?"</p>
<p>"The murder of Marie Cusheau on the night of August 17th."</p>
<p>"Your proofs?"</p>
<p>"I saw you do it, and your own confession on the spire of
Notadam."</p>
<p>The Count laughed and took a paper from his pocket. "Read this,"
he said, "here is proof that Marie Cusheau died of heart failure."</p>
<p>Tictocq looked at the paper.</p>
<p>It was a check for 100,000 francs.</p>
<p>Tictocq dismissed the gensd'arme with a wave of his hand.</p>
<p>"We have made a mistake, monsieurs," he said, but as he turns to
leave the room, Count Carnaignole stops him.</p>
<p>"One moment, monsieur."</p>
<p>The Count Carnaignole tears from his own face a false beard and
reveals the flashing eyes and well-known features of Tictocq, the
detective.</p>
<p>Then, springing forward, he snatches a wig and false eyebrows from
his visitor, and the Gray Wolf, grinding his teeth in rage, stands
before him.</p>
<p>The murderer of Marie Cusheau was never discovered.</p>
<h2>A SNAPSHOT AT THE PRESIDENT</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[This is the kind of waggish editorial O. Henry
was writing in 1894 for the readers of <i>The Rolling Stone</i>.
The reader will do well to remember that the paper was for local
consumption and that the allusions are to a very special place
and time.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<blockquote class="small">
<p>(It will be remembered that about a month
ago there were special rates offered to the public
for a round trip to the City of Washington. The price
of the ticket being exceedingly low, we
secured a loan of twenty dollars from a public-spirited citizen
of Austin, by mortgaging our press and cow, with the additional
security of our brother's name and a slight draught on Major
Hutchinson for $4,000.</p>
<p>We purchased a round trip ticket,
two loaves of Vienna bread, and
quite a large piece of cheese, which we handed to a member of our
reportorial staff, with instructions to go to Washington,
interview President Cleveland, and get a scoop, if possible, on
all other Texas papers.</p>
<p>Our reporter came in yesterday morning,
via the Manor dirt road, with a large piece of folded cotton
bagging tied under each foot.</p>
<p>It seems that he lost his ticket
in Washington, and having divided
the Vienna bread and cheese with some disappointed office seekers
who were coming home by the same route, he arrived home hungry,
desiring food, and with quite an appetite.</p>
<p>Although somewhat late, we give his description
of his interview with President Cleveland.)</p>
</blockquote>
<p>I am chief reporter on the staff of <i>The Rolling Stone</i>.</p>
<p>About a month ago the managing editor came into the room where we
were both sitting engaged in conversation and said:</p>
<p>"Oh, by the way, go to Washington and interview President
Cleveland."</p>
<p>"All right," said I. "Take care of yourself."</p>
<p>Five minutes later I was seated in a palatial drawing-room car
bounding up and down quite a good deal on the elastic
plush-covered seat.</p>
<p>I shall not linger upon the incidents of the journey. I was given
carte blanche to provide myself with every comfort, and to spare
no expense that I could meet. For the regalement of my inside the
preparations had been lavish. Both Vienna and Germany had been
called upon to furnish dainty viands suitable to my palate.</p>
<p>I changed cars and shirts once only on the journey. A stranger
wanted me to also change a two-dollar bill, but I haughtily
declined.</p>
<p>The scenery along the entire road to Washington is diversified.
You find a portion of it on one hand by looking out of the window,
and upon turning the gaze upon the other side the eye is surprised
and delighted by discovering some more of it.</p>
<p>There were a great many Knights of Pythias on the train. One of
them insisted upon my giving him the grip I had with me, but he
was unsuccessful.</p>
<p>On arriving in Washington, which city I instantly recognized from
reading the history of George, I left the car so hastily that I
forgot to fee Mr. Pullman's representative.</p>
<p>I went immediately to the Capitol.</p>
<p>In a spirit of jeu d'esprit I had had made a globular
representation of a "rolling stone." It was of wood, painted a
dark color, and about the size of a small cannon ball. I had
attached to it a twisted pendant about three inches long to
indicate moss. I had resolved to use this in place of a card,
thinking people would readily recognize it as an emblem of my
paper.</p>
<p>I had studied the arrangement of the Capitol, and walked directly
to Mr. Cleveland's private office.</p>
<p>I met a servant in the hall, and held up my card to him smilingly.</p>
<p>I saw his hair rise on his head, and he ran like a deer to the
door, and, lying down, rolled down the long flight of steps into
the yard.</p>
<p>"Ah," said I to myself, "he is one of our delinquent subscribers."</p>
<p>A little farther along I met the President's private secretary,
who had been writing a tariff letter and cleaning a duck gun for
Mr. Cleveland.</p>
<p>When I showed him the emblem of my paper he sprang out of a high
window into a hothouse filled with rare flowers.</p>
<p>This somewhat surprised me.</p>
<p>I examined myself.  My hat was on straight, and there was nothing
at all alarming about my appearance.</p>
<p>I went into the President's private office.</p>
<p>He was alone. He was conversing with Tom Ochiltree. Mr. Ochiltree
saw my little sphere, and with a loud scream rushed out of the
room.</p>
<p>President Cleveland slowly turned his eyes upon me.</p>
<p>He also saw what I had in my hand, and said in a husky voice:</p>
<p>"Wait a moment, please."</p>
<p>He searched his coat pocket, and presently found a piece of paper
on which some words were written.</p>
<p>He laid this on his desk and rose to his feet, raised one hand
above him, and said in deep tones:</p>
<p>"I die for Free Trade, my country, and—and—all that sort of
thing."</p>
<p>I saw him jerk a string, and a camera snapped on another table,
taking our picture as we stood.</p>
<p>"Don't die in the House, Mr. President," I said. "Go over into the
Senate Chamber."</p>
<p>"Peace, murderer!" he said. "Let your bomb do its deadly work."</p>
<p>"I'm no bum," I said, with spirit. "I represent <i>The Rolling Stone</i>,
of Austin, Texas, and this I hold in my hand does the same thing,
but, it seems, unsuccessfully."</p>
<p>The President sank back in his chair greatly relieved.</p>
<p>"I thought you were a dynamiter," he said. "Let me see; Texas!
Texas!" He walked to a large wall map of the United States, and
placing his finger thereon at about the location of Idaho, ran it
down in a zigzag, doubtful way until he reached Texas.</p>
<p>"Oh, yes, here it is. I have so many things on my mind, I
sometimes forget what I should know well.</p>
<p>"Let's see; Texas? Oh, yes, that's the State where Ida Wells and a
lot of colored people lynched a socialist named Hogg for raising a
riot at a camp-meeting. So you are from Texas. I know a man from
Texas named Dave Culberson. How is Dave and his family? Has Dave
got any children?"</p>
<p>"He has a boy in Austin," I said, "working around the Capitol."</p>
<p>"Who is President of Texas now?"</p>
<p>"I don't exactly—"</p>
<p>"Oh, excuse me. I forgot again.  I thought I heard some talk of
its having been made a Republic again."</p>
<p>"Now, Mr. Cleveland," I said, "you answer some of my questions."</p>
<p>A curious film came over the President's eyes. He sat stiffly in
his chair like an automaton.</p>
<p>"Proceed," he said.</p>
<p>"What do you think of the political future of this country?"</p>
<p>"I will state that political exigencies demand emergentistical
promptitude, and while the United States is indissoluble in
conception and invisible in intent, treason and internecine
disagreement have ruptured the consanguinity of patriotism, and—"</p>
<p>"One moment, Mr. President," I interrupted; "would you mind
changing that cylinder? I could have gotten all that from the
American Press Association if I had wanted plate matter. Do you
wear flannels? What is your favorite poet, brand of catsup, bird,
flower, and what are you going to do when you are out of a job?"</p>
<p>"Young man," said Mr. Cleveland, sternly, "you are going a little
too far. My private affairs do not concern the public."</p>
<p>I begged his pardon, and he recovered his good humor in a moment.</p>
<p>"You Texans have a great representative in Senator Mills," he
said. "I think the greatest two speeches I ever heard were his
address before the Senate advocating the removal of the tariff on
salt and increasing it on chloride of sodium."</p>
<p>"Tom Ochiltree is also from our State," I said.</p>
<p>"Oh, no, he isn't. You must be mistaken," replied Mr. Cleveland,
"for he says he is. I really must go down to Texas some time, and
see the State. I want to go up into the Panhandle and see if it is
really shaped like it is on the map."</p>
<p>"Well, I must be going," said I.</p>
<p>"When you get back to Texas," said the President, rising, "you
must write to me. Your visit has awakened in me quite an interest
in your State which I fear I have not given the attention it
deserves. There are many historical and otherwise interesting
places that you have revived in my recollection—the Alamo, where
Davy Jones fell; Goliad, Sam Houston's surrender to Montezuma, the
petrified boom found near Austin, five-cent cotton and the Siamese
Democratic platform born in Dallas. I should so much like to see
the gals in Galveston, and go to the wake in Waco. I am glad I met
you. Turn to the left as you enter the hall and keep straight on
out." I made a low bow to signify that the interview was at an
end, and withdrew immediately. I had no difficulty
in leaving the building as soon as I was outside.</p>
<p>I hurried downtown in order to obtain refreshments at some place
where viands had been placed upon the free list.</p>
<p>I shall not describe my journey back to Austin. I lost my return
ticket somewhere in the White House, and was forced to return home
in a manner not especially beneficial to my shoes. Everybody was
well in Washington when I left, and all send their love.</p>
<h2>AN UNFINISHED CHRISTMAS STORY</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Probably begun several years before his
death. Published, as it here appears, in <i>Short Stories</i>,
January, 1911.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>Now, a Christmas story should be one. For a good many years the
ingenious writers have been putting forth tales for the holiday
numbers that employed every subtle, evasive, indirect and
strategic scheme they could invent to disguise the Christmas
flavor. So far has this new practice been carried that nowadays
when you read a story in a holiday magazine the only way you can
tell it is a Christmas story is to look at the footnote which
reads: ["The incidents in the above story happened on December
25th.—<span class="smallcaps">Ed</span>."]</p>
<p>There is progress in this; but it is all very sad. There are just
as many real Christmas stories as ever, if we would only dig 'em
up. Me, I am for the Scrooge and Marley Christmas story, and the
Annie and Willie's prayer poem, and the long lost son coming home
on the stroke of twelve to the poorly thatched cottage with his
arms full of talking dolls and popcorn balls and—Zip! you hear
the second mortgage on the cottage go flying off it into the deep
snow.</p>
<p>So, this is to warn you that there is no subterfuge about this
story—and you might come upon stockings hung to the mantel and
plum puddings and hark! the chimes! and wealthy misers loosening
up and handing over penny whistles to lame newsboys if you read
further.</p>
<p>Once I knocked at a door (I have so many things to tell you I keep
on losing sight of the story). It was the front door of a
furnished room house in West 'Teenth Street. I was looking for a
young illustrator named Paley originally and irrevocably from
Terre Haute. Paley doesn't enter even into the first serial rights
of this Christmas story; I mention him simply in explaining why I
came to knock at the door—some people have so much curiosity.</p>
<p>The door was opened by the landlady. I had seen hundreds like her.
And I had smelled before that cold, dank, furnished draught of air
that hurried by her to escape immurement in the furnished house.</p>
<p>She was stout, and her face and lands were as white as though she
had been drowned in a barrel of vinegar. One hand held together at
her throat a buttonless flannel dressing sacque whose lines had
been cut by no tape or butterick known to mortal woman. Beneath
this a too-long, flowered, black sateen skirt was draped about
her, reaching the floor in stiff wrinkles and folds.</p>
<p>The rest of her was yellow. Her hair, in some bygone age, had been
dipped in the fountain of folly presided over by the merry nymph
Hydrogen; but now, except at the roots, it had returned to its
natural grim and grizzled white.</p>
<p>Her eyes and teeth and finger nails were yellow. Her chops hung
low and shook when she moved. The look on her face was exactly
that smileless look of fatal melancholy that you may have seen on
the countenance of a hound left sitting on the doorstep of a
deserted cabin.</p>
<p>I inquired for Paley. After a long look of cold suspicion the
landlady spoke, and her voice matched the dingy roughness of her
flannel sacque.</p>
<p>Paley? Was I sure that was the name? And wasn't it, likely, Mr.
Sanderson I meant, in the third floor rear? No; it was Paley I
wanted. Again that frozen, shrewd, steady study of my soul from
her pale-yellow, unwinking eyes, trying to penetrate my mask of
deception and rout out my true motives from my lying lips. There
was a Mr. Tompkins in the front hall bedroom two flights up.
Perhaps it was he I was seeking. He worked of nights; he never
came in till seven in the morning. Or if it was really Mr. Tucker
(thinly disguised as Paley) that I was hunting I would have to
call between five and—</p>
<p>But no; I held firmly to Paley. There was no such name among her
lodgers. Click! the door closed swiftly in my face; and I heard
through the panels the clanking of chains and bolts.</p>
<p>I went down the steps and stopped to consider. The number of this
house was 43. I was sure Paley had said 43—or perhaps it was 45
or 47—I decided to try 47, the second house farther along.</p>
<p>I rang the bell. The door opened; and there stood the same woman.
I wasn't confronted by just a resemblance—it was the <i>same</i>
woman holding together the same old sacque at her throat
and looking at me with the same yellow eyes as if she had
never seen me before on
earth. I saw on the knuckle of her second finger the same
red-and-black spot made, probably, by a recent burn against a hot
stove.</p>
<p>I stood speechless and gaping while one with moderate haste might
have told fifty. I couldn't have spoken Paley's name even if I had
remembered it. I did the only thing that a brave man who believes
there are mysterious forces in nature that we do not yet fully
comprehend could have done in the circumstances. I backed down the
steps to the sidewalk and then hurried away frontward, fully
understanding how incidents like that must bother the psychical
research people and the census takers.</p>
<p>Of course I heard an explanation of it afterward, as we always do
about inexplicable things.</p>
<p>The landlady was Mrs. Kannon; and she leased three adjoining
houses, which she made into one by cutting arched doorways through
the walls. She sat in the middle house and answered the three
bells.</p>
<p>I wonder why I have maundered so slowly through the prologue. I
have it! it was simply to say to you, in the form of introduction
rife through the Middle West: "Shake hands with Mrs. Kannon."</p>
<p>For, it was in her triple house that the Christmas story happened;
and it was there where I picked up the incontrovertible facts from
the gossip of many roomers and met Stickney—and saw the necktie.</p>
<p>Christmas came that year on Thursday, and snow came with it.</p>
<p>Stickney (Harry Clarence Fowler Stickney to whomsoever his full
baptismal cognominal burdens may be of interest) reached his
address at six-thirty Wednesday afternoon. "Address" is New
Yorkese for "home." Stickney roomed at 45 West 'Teenth Street,
third floor rear hall room. He was twenty years and four months
old, and he worked in a cameras-of-all-kinds, photographic
supplies and films-developed store. I don't know what kind of work
he did in the store; but you must have seen him. He is the young
man who always comes behind the counter to wait on you and lets
you talk for five minutes, telling him what you want. When you are
done, he calls the proprietor at the top of his voice to wait on
you, and walks away whistling between his teeth.</p>
<p>I don't want to bother about describing to you his appearance;
but, if you are a man reader, I will say that Stickncy looked
precisely like the young chap that you always find sitting in your
chair smoking a cigarette after you have missed a shot while
playing pool—not billiards but pool—when you want to sit down
yourself.</p>
<p>There are some to whom Christmas gives no Christmassy essence. Of
course, prosperous people and comfortable people who have homes or
flats or rooms with meals, and even people who live in apartment
houses with hotel service get something of the Christmas flavor.
They give one another presents with the cost mark scratched off
with a penknife; and they hang holly wreaths in the front windows
and when they are asked whether they prefer light or dark meat
from the turkey they say: "Both, please," and giggle and have lots
of fun. And the very poorest people have the best time of it. The
Army gives 'em a dinner, and the 10
<span class="smallcaps">a. m.</span> issue of the Night Final
edition of the newspaper with the largest circulation in the city
leaves a basket at their door full of an apple, a Lake Ronkonkoma
squab, a scrambled eggplant and a bunch of Kalamazoo bleached
parsley. The poorer you are the more Christmas does for you.</p>
<p>But, I'll tell you to what kind of a mortal Christmas seems to be
only the day before the twenty-sixth day of December. It's the
chap in the big city earning sixteen dollars a week, with no
friends and few acquaintances, who finds himself with only fifty
cents in his pocket on Christmas eve. He can't accept charity; he
can't borrow; he knows no one who would invite him to dinner. I
have a fancy that when the shepherds left their flocks to follow
the star of Bethlehem there was a bandy-legged young fellow among
them who was just learning the sheep business. So they said to
him, "Bobby, we're going to investigate this star route and see
what's in it. If it should turn out to be the first Christmas day
we don't want to miss it. And, as you are not a wise man, and as
you couldn't possibly purchase a present to take along, suppose
you stay behind and mind the sheep."</p>
<p>So as we may say, Harry Stickney was a direct descendant of the
shepherd who was left behind to take care of the flocks.</p>
<p>Getting back to facts, Stickney rang the doorbell of 45. He had a
habit of forgetting his latchkey.</p>
<p>Instantly the door opened and there stood Mrs. Kannon, clutching
her sacque together at the throat and gorgonizing him with her
opaque, yellow eyes.</p>
<p>(To give you good measure, here is a story within a story. Once a
roomer in 47 who had the Scotch habit—not kilts, but a habit of
drinking Scotch—began to figure to himself what might happen if
two persons should ring the doorbells of 43 and 47 at the same
time. Visions of two halves of Mrs. Kannon appearing respectively
and simultaneously at the two entrances, each clutching at a side
of an open, flapping sacque that could never meet, overpowered
him. Bellevue got him.)</p>
<p>"Evening," said Stickney cheerlessly, as he distributed little
piles of muddy slush along the hall matting. "Think we'll have
snow?"</p>
<p>"You left your key," said—</p>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Here the manuscript ends.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<h2>THE UNPROFITABLE SERVANT</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Left unfinished, and published as it
here appears in <i>Everybody's Magazine</i>, December,
1911.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>I am the richer by the acquaintance of four newspaper men. Singly,
they are my encyclopedias, friends, mentors, and sometimes
bankers. But now and then it happens that all of them will pitch
upon the same printworthy incident of the passing earthly panorama
and will send in reportorial constructions thereof to their
respective journals. It is then that, for me, it is to laugh. For
it seems that to each of them, trained and skilled as he may be,
the same occurrence presents a different facet of the cut diamond,
life.</p>
<p>One will have it (let us say) that Mme. André
Macarté's apartment was looted by six
burglars, who descended via the fire-escape and
bore away a ruby tiara valued at two thousand dollars and a
five-hundred-dollar prize Spitz dog, which (in violation of the
expectoration ordinance) was making free with the halls of the
Wuttapesituckquesunoowetunquah Apartments.</p>
<p>My second "chiel" will take notes to the effect that
while a friendly game of pinochle was in progress in the tenement
rooms of Mrs. Andy McCarty, a lady guest named Ruby O'Hara threw a
burglar down six flights of stairs, where he was pinioned and held
by a two-thousand-dollar English bulldog amid a crowd of five
hundred excited spectators.</p>
<p>My third chronicler and friend will gather the news threads of the
happening in his own happy way; setting forth on the page for you
to read that the house of Antonio Macartini was blown up at 6
<span class="smallcaps">a. m.</span>, by the
Black Hand Society, on his refusing to leave two
thousand dollars at a certain street corner, killing a pet
five-hundred-dollar Pomeranian belonging to Alderman Rubitara's
little daughter (see photo and diagram opposite).</p>
<p>Number four of my history-makers will simply construe from the
premises the story that while an audience of two thousand
enthusiasts was listening to a Rubinstein concert on Sixth Street,
a woman who said she was Mrs. Andrew M. Carter threw a brick
through a plate-glass window valued at five hundred dollars. The
Carter woman claimed that some one in the building had stolen her
dog.</p>
<p>Now, the discrepancies in these registrations of the day's doings
need do no one hurt. Surely, one newspaper is enough for any man
to prop against his morning water-bottle to fend off the smiling
hatred of his wife's glance. If he be foolish enough to read four
he is no wiser than a Higher Critic.</p>
<p>I remember (probably as well as you do) having read the parable of
the talents. A prominent citizen, about to journey into a far
country, first hands over to his servants his goods. To one he
gives five talents; to another two; to another one—to every man
according to his several ability, as the text has it. There are
two versions of this parable, as you well know. There may be
more—I do not know.</p>
<p>When the p. c. returns he requires an accounting. Two servants
have put their talents out at usury and gained one hundred per
cent. Good. The unprofitable one simply digs up the talent
deposited with him and hands it out on demand. A pattern of
behavior for trust companies and banks, surely! In one version we
read that he had wrapped it in a napkin and laid it away. But the
commentator informs us that the talent mentioned was composed of
750 ounces of silver—about $900 worth. So the chronicler who
mentioned the napkin, had either to reduce the amount of the
deposit or do a lot of explaining about the size of the napery
used in those davs. Therefore in his version we note that he uses
the word "pound" instead of "talent."</p>
<p>A pound of silver may very well be laid away—and carried away—in
a napkin, as any hotel or restaurant man will tell you.</p>
<p>But let us get away from our mutton.</p>
<p>When the returned nobleman finds that the one-talented servant has
nothing to hand over except the original fund entrusted to him, he
is as angry as a multi-millionaire would be if some one should
hide under his bed and make a noise like an assessment. He orders
the unprofitable servant cast into outer darkness, after first
taking away his talent and giving it to the one-hundred-per cent.
financier, and breathing strange saws, saying: "From him that hath
not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Which is the
same as to say: "Nothing from nothing leaves nothing."</p>
<p>And now closer draw the threads of parable, precept allegory, and
narrative, leading nowhere if you will, or else weaving themselves
into the little fiction story about Cliff McGowan and his one
talent. There is but a definition to follow; and then the homely
actors trip on.</p>
<p>Talent: A gift, endowment or faculty; some peculiar ability,
power, or accomplishment, natural or acquired. (A metaphor
borrowed from the parable in Matt. XXV. 14-30.)</p>
<p>In New York City to-day there are (estimated) 125,000 living
creatures training for the stage. This does not include seals,
pigs, dogs, elephants, prize-fighters, Carmens, mind-readers, or
Japanese wrestlers. The bulk of them are in the ranks of the Four
Million. Out of this number will survive a thousand.</p>
<p>Nine hundred of these will have attained their fulness of fame
when they shall dubiously indicate with the point of a hatpin a
blurred figure in a flashlight photograph of a stage tout ensemble
with the proud commentary: "That's me."</p>
<p>Eighty, in the pinkest of (male) Louis XIV court costumes, shall
welcome the Queen of the (mythical) Pawpaw Isles in a few
well-memorized words, turning a tip-tilted nose upon the nine
hundred.</p>
<p>Ten, in tiny lace caps, shall dust Ibsen furniture for six minutes
after the rising of the curtain.</p>
<p>Nine shall attain the circuits, besieging with muscle, skill, eye,
hand, voice, wit, brain, heel and toe the ultimate high walls of
stardom.</p>
<p>One shall inherit Broadway. Sic venit gloria mundi.</p>
<p>Cliff McGowan and Mac McGowan were cousins. They lived on the West
Side and were talented. Singing, dancing, imitations, trick
bicycle riding, boxing, German and Irish dialect comedy, and a
little sleight-of-hand and balancing of wheat straws and
wheelbarrows on the ends of their chins came as easy to them as it
is for you to fix your rat so it won't show or to dodge a creditor
through the swinging-doors of a well-lighted café—according as
you may belong to the one or the other division of the greatest
prestidigitators—the people. They were slim, pale, consummately
self-possessed youths, whose fingernails were always
irreproachably (and clothes seams reproachfully) shiny. Their
conversation was in sentences so short that they made Kipling's
seem as long as court citations.</p>
<p>Having the temperament, they did no work. Any afternoon you could
find them on Eighth Avenue either in front of Spinelli's barber
shop, Mike Dugan's place, or the Limerick Hotel, rubbing their
forefinger nails with dingy silk handkerchiefs. At any time, if
you had happened to be standing, undecisive, near a pool-table,
and Cliff and Mac had, casually, as it were, drawn near,
mentioning something disinterestedly, about a game, well, indeed,
would it have been for you had you gone your way, unresponsive.
Which assertion, carefully considered, is a study in tense,
punctuation, and advice to strangers.</p>
<p>Of all kinships it is likely that the closest is that of cousin.
Between cousins there exist the ties of race, name, and
favor—ties thicker than water, and yet not coagulated with the
jealous precipitations of brotherhood or the enjoining obligations
of the matrimonial yoke. You can bestow upon a cousin almost the
interest and affection that you would give to a stranger; you need
not feel toward him the contempt and embarrassment that you have
for one of your father's sons—it is the closer clan-feeling that
sometimes makes the branch of a tree stronger than its trunk.</p>
<p>Thus were the two McGowans bonded. They enjoyed a quiet celebrity
in their district, which was a strip west of Eighth Avenue with
the Pump for its pivot. Their talents were praised in a hundred
"joints"; their friendship was famed even in a neighborhood where
men had been known to fight off the wives of their friends—when
domestic onslaught was being made upon their friends by the wives
of their friends. (Thus do the limitations of English force us to
repetends.)</p>
<p>So, side by side, grim, sallow, lowering, inseparable, undefeated,
the cousins fought their way into the temple of Art—art with a
big A, which causes to intervene a lesson in geometry.</p>
<p>One night at about eleven o'clock Del Delano dropped into Mike's
place on Eighth Avenue. From that moment, instead of remaining a
Place, the café became a Resort. It was as though King Edward had
condescended to mingle with ten-spots of a different suit; or Joe
Gans had casually strolled in to look over the Tuskegee School; or
Mr. Shaw, of England, had accepted an invitation to read
selections from "Rena, the Snow-bird" at an unveiling of the
proposed monument to James Owen O'Connor at Chinquapin Falls,
Mississippi. In spite of these comparisons, you will have to be
told why the patronizing of a third-rate saloon on the West Side
by the said Del Delano conferred such a specific honor upon the
place.</p>
<p>Del Delano could not make his feet behave; and so the world paid
him $300 a week to see them misconduct themselves on the
vaudeville stage. To make the matter plain to you (and to swell
the number of words), he was the best fancy dancer on any of the
circuits between Ottawa and Corpus Christi. With his eyes fixed on
vacancy and his feet apparently fixed on nothing, he "nightly
charmed thousands," as his press-agent incorrectly stated. Even
taking night performance and matinée together, he scarcely
could have charmed more than eighteen hundred, including
those who left after Zora, the Nautch girl, had squeezed
herself through a hoop twelve inches in diameter, and
those who were waiting for the moving pictures.</p>
<p>But Del Delano was the West Side's favorite; and nowhere is there
a more loyal Side. Five years before our story was submitted to
the editors, Del had crawled from some Tenth Avenue basement like
a lean rat and had bitten his way into the Big Cheese. Patched,
half-starved, cuffless, and as scornful of the Hook as an
interpreter of Ibsen, he had danced his way into health (as you
and I view it) and fame in sixteen minutes on Amateur Night at
Creary's (Variety) Theatre in Eighth Avenue. A bookmaker (one of
the kind that talent wins with instead of losing) sat in the
audience, asleep, dreaming of an impossible pick-up among the
amateurs. After a snore, a glass of beer from the handsome waiter,
and a temporary blindness caused by the diamonds of a transmontane
blonde in Box E, the bookmaker woke up long enough to engage Del
Delano for a three-weeks' trial engagement fused with a
trained-dog short-circuit covering the three Washingtons—Heights,
Statue, and Square.</p>
<p>By the time this story was read and accepted, Del Delano was
drawing his three-hundred dollars a week, which, divided by seven
(Sunday acts not in costume being permissible), dispels the
delusion entertained by most of us that we have seen better days.
You can easily imagine the worshipful agitation of Eighth Avenue
whenever Del Delano honored it with a visit after his
terpsichorean act in a historically great and vilely ventilated
Broadway theatre. If the West Side could claim forty-two minutes
out of his forty-two weeks' bookings every year, it was an
occasion for bonfires and repainting of the Pump. And now you know
why Mike's saloon is a Resort, and no longer a simple Place.</p>
<p>Del Delano entered Mike's alone. So nearly concealed in a
fur-lined overcoat and a derby two sizes too large for him was
Prince Lightfoot that you saw of his face only his pale,
hatchet-edged features and a pair of unwinking, cold, light blue
eyes. Nearly every man lounging at Mike's bar recognized the
renowned product of the West Side. To those who did not, wisdom
was conveyed by prodding elbows and growls of one-sided
introduction.</p>
<p>Upon Charley, one of the bartenders, both fame and fortune
descended simultaneously. He had once been honored by shaking
hands with the great Delano at a Seventh Avenue boxing bout. So
with lungs of brass he now cried: "Hallo, Del, old man; what'll it
be?"</p>
<p>Mike, the proprietor, who was cranking the cash register, heard.
On the next day he raised Charley's wages five a week.</p>
<p>Del Delano drank a pony beer, paying for it carelessly out of his
nightly earnings of $42.85-5/7. He nodded amiably
but coldly at the long line of Mike's patrons and strolled past
them into the rear room of the café. For he heard in there sounds
pertaining to his own art—the light, stirring staccato of a
buck-and-wing dance.</p>
<p>In the back room Mac McGowan was giving a private exhibition of
the genius of his feet. A few young men sat at tables looking on
critically while they amused themselves seriously with beer. They
nodded approval at some new fancy steps of Mac's own invention.</p>
<p>At the sight of the great Del Delano, the amateur's feet
stuttered, blundered, clicked a few times, and ceased to move. The
tongues of one's shoes become tied in the presence of the Master.
Mac's sallow face took on a slight flush.</p>
<p>From the uncertain cavity between Del Delano's hat brim and the
lapels of his high fur coat collar came a thin puff of cigarette
smoke and then a voice:</p>
<p>"Do that last step over again, kid. And don't hold your arms quite
so stiff. Now, then!"</p>
<p>Once more Mac went through his paces. According to the traditions
of the man dancer, his entire being was transformed into mere feet
and legs. His gaze and expression became cataleptic; his body,
unbending above the waist, but as light as a cork, bobbed like the
same cork dancing on the ripples of a running brook. The beat of
his heels and toes pleased you like a snare-drum obligato. The
performance ended with an amazing clatter of leather against wood
that culminated in a sudden flat-footed stamp, leaving the dancer
erect and as motionless as a pillar of the colonial portico of a
mansion in a Kentucky prohibition town. Mac felt that he had done
his best and that Del Delano would turn his back upon him in
derisive scorn.</p>
<p>An approximate silence followed, broken only by the mewing of a
café cat and the hubbub and uproar of a few million citizens and
transportation facilities outside.</p>
<p>Mac turned a hopeless but nervy eye upon Del Delano's face. In it
he read disgust, admiration, envy, indifference, approval,
disappointment, praise, and contempt.</p>
<p>Thus, in the countenances of those we hate or love we find what we
most desire or fear to see. Which is an assertion equalling in its
wisdom and chiaroscuro the most famous sayings of the most foolish
philosophers that the world has ever known.</p>
<p>Del Delano retired within his overcoat and hat. In two minutes he
emerged and turned his left side to Mac. Then he spoke.</p>
<p>"You've got a foot movement, kid, like a baby hippopotamus trying
to side-step a jab from a humming-bird. And you hold yourself like
a truck driver having his picture taken in a Third Avenue
photograph gallery. And you haven't got any method or style. And
your knees are about as limber as a couple of Yale pass-keys. And
you strike the eye as weighing, let us say, 450 pounds while you
work. But, say, would you mind giving me your name?"</p>
<p>"McGowan," said the humbled amateur—"Mac McGowan."</p>
<p>Delano the Great slowly lighted a cigarette and continued, through
its smoke:</p>
<p>"In other words, you're rotten. You can't dance. But I'll tell you
one thing you've got."</p>
<p>"Throw it all off of your system while you're at it," said Mac.
"What've I got?"</p>
<p>"Genius," said Del Delano. "Except myself, it's up to you to be
the best fancy dancer in the United States, Europe, Asia, and the
colonial possessions of all three."</p>
<p>"Smoke up!" said Mac McGowan.</p>
<p>"Genius," repeated the Master—"you've got a talent for genius.
Your brains are in your feet, where a dancer's ought to be. You've
been self-taught until you're almost ruined, but not quite. What
you need is a trainer. I'll take you in hand and put you at the
top of the profession. There's room there for the two of us. You
may beat me," said the Master, casting upon him a cold, savage
look combining so much rivalry, affection, justice, and human hate
that it stamped him at once as one of the little great ones of the
earth—"you may beat me; but I doubt it. I've got the start and
the pull. But at the top is where you belong. Your name, you say,
is Robinson?"</p>
<p>"McGowan," repeated the amateur, "Mac McGowan."</p>
<p>"It don't matter," said Delano. "Suppose you walk up to my hotel
with me. I'd like to talk to you. Your footwork is the worst I
ever saw, Madigan—but—well, I'd like to talk to you. You may not
think so, but I'm not so stuck up. I came off of the West Side
myself. That overcoat cost me eight hundred dollars; but the
collar ain't so high but what I can see over it. I taught myself
to dance, and I put in most of nine years at it before I shook a
foot in public. But I had genius. I didn't go too far wrong in
teaching myself as you've done. You've got the rottenest method
and style of anybody I ever saw."</p>
<p>"Oh, I don't think much of the few little steps I take," said Mac,
with hypocritical lightness.</p>
<p>"Don't talk like a package of self-raising buckwheat flour," said
Del Delano. "You've had a talent handed to you by the Proposition
Higher Up; and it's up to you to do the proper thing with it. I'd
like to have you go up to my hotel for a talk, if you will."</p>
<p>In his rooms in the King Clovis Hotel, Del Delano put on a scarlet
house coat bordered with gold braid and set out Apollinaris and a
box of sweet crackers.</p>
<p>Mac's eye wandered.</p>
<p>"Forget it," said Del. "Drink and tobacco may be all right for a
man who makes his living with his hands; but they won't do if
you're depending on your head or your feet. If one end of you gets
tangled, so does the other. That's why beer and cigarettes don't
hurt piano players and picture painters. But you've got to cut 'em
out if you want to do mental or pedal work. Now, have a cracker,
and then we'll talk some."</p>
<p>"All right," said Mac. "I take it as an honor, of course, for you
to notice my hopping around. Of course I'd like to do something in
a professional line. Of course I can sing a little and do card
tricks and Irish and German comedy stuff, and of course I'm not so
bad on the trapeze and comic bicycle stunts and Hebrew monologues
and—"</p>
<p>"One moment," interrupted Del Delano, "before we begin. I said you
couldn't dance. Well, that wasn't quite right. You've only got two
or three bad tricks in your method. You're handy with your feet,
and you belong at the top, where I am. I'll put you there. I've
got six weeks continuous in New York; and in four I can shape up
your style till the booking agents will fight one another to get
you. And I'll do it, too. I'm of, from, and for the West Side.
'Del Delano' looks good on bill-boards, but the family name's
Crowley. Now, Mackintosh—McGowan, I mean—you've got your
chance—fifty times a better one than I had."</p>
<p>"I'd be a shine to turn it down," said Mac. "And I hope you
understand I appreciate it. Me and my cousin Cliff McGowan was
thinking of getting a try-out at Creary's on amateur night a month
from to-morrow."</p>
<p>"Good stuff!" said Delano. "I got mine there. Junius T. Rollins,
the booker for Kuhn &amp; Dooley, jumped on the stage and engaged me
after my dance. And the boards were an inch deep in nickels and
dimes and quarters. There wasn't but nine penny pieces found in
the lot."</p>
<p>"I ought to tell you," said Mac, after two minutes of pensiveness,
"that my cousin Cliff can beat me dancing. We've always been what
you might call pals. If you'd take him up instead of me, now, it
might be better. He's invented a lot of steps that I can't cut."</p>
<p>"Forget it," said Delano. "Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and
Saturdays of every week from now till amateur night, a month off,
I'll coach you. I'll make you as good as I am; and nobody could do
more for you. My act's over every night at 10:15. Half an hour
later I'll take you up and drill you till twelve. I'll put you at
the top of the bunch, right where I am. You've got talent. Your
style's bum; but you've got the genius. You let me manage it. I'm
from the West Side myself, and I'd rather see one of the same gang
win out before I would an East-Sider, or any of the Flatbush or
Hackensack Meadow kind of butt-iners. I'll see that Junius Rollins
is present on your Friday night; and if he don't climb over the
footlights and offer you fifty a week as a starter, I'll let you
draw it down from my own salary every Monday night. Now, am I
talking on the level or am I not?"</p>
<p>Amateur night at Creary's Eighth Avenue Theatre is cut by the same
pattern as amateur nights elsewhere. After the regular performance
the humblest talent may, by previous arrangement with the
management, make its debut upon the public stage. Ambitious
non-professionals, mostly self-instructed, display their skill and
powers of entertainment along the broadest lines. They may sing,
dance, mimic, juggle, contort, recite, or disport themselves along
any of the ragged boundary lines of Art. From the ranks of these
anxious tyros are chosen the professionals that adorn or otherwise
make conspicuous the full-blown stage. Press-agents delight in
recounting to open-mouthed and close-eared reporters stories of
the humble beginnings of the brilliant stars whose orbits they
control.</p>
<p>Such and such a prima donna (they will tell you) made her initial
bow to the public while turning handsprings on an amateur night.
One great matinée favorite made his debut on a
generous Friday evening singing coon songs of his own
composition. A tragedian famous on two continents and
an island first attracted attention by an amateur
impersonation of a newly landed Scandinavian peasant
girl. One Broadway comedian that turns 'em away got a booking on a
Friday night by reciting (seriously) the graveyard scene in
"Hamlet."</p>
<p>Thus they get their chance. Amateur night is a kindly boon. It is
charity divested of almsgiving. It is a brotherly hand reached
down by members of the best united band of coworkers in the world
to raise up less fortunate ones without labelling them beggars. It
gives you the chance, if you can grasp it, to step for a few
minutes before some badly painted scenery and, during the playing
by the orchestra of some ten or twelve bars of music, and while
the soles of your shoes may be clearly holding to the uppers, to
secure a salary equal to a Congressman's or any orthodox
minister's. Could an ambitious student of literature or financial
methods get a chance like that by spending twenty minutes in a
Carnegie library? I do not not trow so.</p>
<p>But shall we look in at Creary's? Let us say that the specific
Friday night had arrived on which the fortunate Mac McGowan was to
justify the flattering predictions of his distinguished patron
and, incidentally, drop his silver talent into the slit of the
slot-machine of fame and fortune that gives up reputation and
dough. I offer, sure of your acquiescence, that we now forswear
hypocritical philosophy and bigoted comment, permitting the story
to finish itself in the dress of material allegations—a medium
more worthy, when held to the line, than the most laborious
creations of the word-milliners…</p>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Page of (O. Henry's) manuscript missing
here.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p class="noindent">…easily among the wings
with his patron, the great Del Delano. For,
whatever footlights shone in the City-That-Would-Be-Amused, the
freedom of their unshaded side was Del's. And if he should take up
an amateur—see? and bring him around—see? and, winking one of
his cold blue eyes, say to the manager: "Take it from me—he's got
the goods—see?" you wouldn't expect that amateur to sit on an
unpainted bench sudorifically awaiting his turn, would you? So Mac
strolled around largely with the nonpareil; and the seven waited,
clammily, on the bench.</p>
<p>A giant in shirt-sleeves, with a grim, kind face in which many
stitches had been taken by surgeons from time to time,
<i>i. e.</i>, with a long stick, looped at the end.
He was the man with the Hook. The
manager, with his close-smoothed blond hair, his one-sided smile,
and his abnormally easy manner, pored with patient condescension
over the difficult program of the amateurs. The last of the
professional turns—the Grand March of the Happy Huzzard—had been
completed; the last wrinkle and darn of their blue silkolene
cotton tights had vanished from the stage. The man in the
orchestra who played the kettle-drum, cymbals, triangle,
sandpaper, whang-doodle, hoof-beats, and catcalls, and fired the
pistol shots, had wiped his brow. The illegal holiday of the
Romans had arrived.</p>
<p>While the orchestra plays the famous waltz from "The Dismal Wife,"
let us bestow two hundred words upon the psychology of the
audience.</p>
<p>The orchestra floor was filled by People. The boxes contained
Persons. In the galleries was the Foreordained Verdict. The claque
was there as it had originated in the Stone Age and was afterward
adapted by the French. Every Micky and Maggie who sat upon
Creary's amateur bench, wise beyond their talents, knew that their
success or doom lay already meted out to them by that crowded,
whistling, roaring mass of Romans in the three galleries. They
knew that the winning or the losing of the game for each one lay
in the strength of the "gang" aloft that could turn the applause
to its favorite. On a Broadway first night a wooer of fame may win
it from the ticket buyers over the heads of the cognoscenti. But
not so at Creary's. The amateur's fate is arithmetical. The number
of his supporting admirers present at his try-out decides it in
advance. But how these outlying Friday nights put to a certain
shame the Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and
matinées of the Broadway stage you should
know…</p>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[Here the manuscript ends.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<h2>ARISTOCRACY VERSUS HASH</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[From <i>The Rolling Stone</i>.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>The snake reporter of <i>The Rolling Stone</i> was wandering up the
avenue last night on his way home from the Y.M.C.A. rooms when he
was approached by a gaunt, hungry-looking man with wild eyes and
dishevelled hair. He accosted the reporter in a hollow, weak
voice.</p>
<p>"'Can you tell me, Sir, where I can find in this town a family of
scrubs?'</p>
<p>"'I don't understand exactly.'</p>
<p>"'Let me tell you how it is,' said the stranger, inserting his
forefinger in the reporter's buttonhole and badly damaging his
chrysanthemum. 'I am a representative from Soapstone County, and I
and my family are houseless, homeless, and shelterless. We have
not tasted food for over a week. I brought my family with me, as I
have indigestion and could not get around much with the boys. Some
days ago I started out to find a boarding house, as I cannot
afford to put up at a hotel. I found a nice aristocratic-looking
place, that suited me, and went in and asked for the proprietress.
A very stately lady with a Roman nose came in the room. She had
one hand laid across her stom—across her waist, and the other
held a lace handkerchief. I told her I wanted board for myself and
family, and she condescended to take us. I asked for her terms,
and she said $300 per week.</p>
<p>"'I had two dollars in my pocket and I gave her that for a fine
teapot that I broke when I fell over the table when she spoke.'</p>
<p>"'You appear surprised,' says she. 'You will please remembah that
I am the widow of Governor Riddle of Georgiah; my family is very
highly connected; I give you board as a favah; I nevah considah
money any equivalent for the advantage of my society, I—'</p>
<p>"'Well, I got out of there, and I went to some other places. The
next lady was a cousin of General Mahone of Virginia, and wanted
four dollars an hour for a back room with a pink motto and a
Burnet granite bed in it. The next one was an aunt of Davy
Crockett, and asked eight dollars a day for a room furnished in
imitation of the Alamo, with prunes for breakfast and one hour's
conversation with her for dinner. Another one said she was a
descendant of Benedict Arnold on her father's side and Captain
Kidd on the other.</p>
<p>"'She took more after Captain Kidd.</p>
<p>"'She only had one meal and prayers a day, and counted her society
worth $100 a week.</p>
<p>"'I found nine widows of Supreme Judges, twelve relicts of
Governors and Generals, and twenty-two ruins left by various happy
Colonels, Professors, and Majors, who valued their aristocratic
worth from $90 to $900 per week, with weak-kneed hash and dried
apples on the side. I admire people of fine descent, but my
stomach yearns for pork and beans instead of culture. Am I not
right?'</p>
<p>"'Your words,' said the reporter, 'convince me that you have
uttered what you have said.'</p>
<p>"'Thanks. You see how it is. I am not wealthy; I have only my per
diem and my perquisites, and I cannot afford to pay for high
lineage and moldy ancestors. A little corned beef goes further
with me than a coronet, and when I am cold a coat of arms does not
warm me.'</p>
<p>"'I greatly fear, 'said the reporter, with a playful hiccough,
'that you have run against a high-toned town. Most all the
first-class boarding houses here are run by ladies of the old
Southern families, the very first in the land.'</p>
<p>"'I am now desperate,' said the Representative, as he chewed a
tack awhile, thinking it was a clove. 'I want to find a boarding
house where the proprietress was an orphan found in a livery
stable, whose father was a dago from East Austin, and whose
grandfather was never placed on the map. I want a scrubby, ornery,
low-down, snuff-dipping, back-woodsy, piebald gang, who never
heard of finger bowls or Ward McAllister, but who can get up a
mess of hot cornbread and Irish stew at regular market
quotations.'</p>
<p>"'Is there such a place in Austin?'</p>
<p>"The snake reporter sadly shook his head. 'I do not know,' he
said, 'but I will shake you for the beer.'</p>
<p>"Ten minutes later the slate in the Blue Ruin saloon bore two
additional characters: 10."</p>
<h2>THE PRISONER OF ZEMBLA</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[From <i>The Rolling Stone</i>.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>So the king fell into a furious rage, so that none durst go near
him for fear, and he gave out that since the Princess Ostla had
disobeyed him there would be a great tourney, and to the knight
who should prove himself of the greatest valor he would give the
hand of the princess.</p>
<p>And he sent forth a herald to proclaim that he would do this.</p>
<p>And the herald went about the country making his desire known,
blowing a great tin horn and riding a noble steed that pranced and
gambolled; and the villagers gazed upon him and said: "Lo, that is
one of them tin horn gamblers concerning which the chroniclers
have told us."</p>
<p>And when the day came, the king sat in the grandstand, holding the
gage of battle in his band, and by his side sat the Princess
Ostla, looking very pale and beautiful, but with mournful eyes
from which she scarce could keep the tears. And the knights which
came to the tourney gazed upon the princess in wonder at her
beauty, and each swore to win so that he could marry her and board
with the king. Suddenly the heart of the princess gave a great
bound, for she saw among the knights one of the poor students with
whom she had been in love.</p>
<p>The knights mounted and rode in a line past the grandstand, and
the king stopped the poor student, who had the worst horse and the
poorest caparisons of any of the knights and said:</p>
<p>"Sir Knight, prithee tell me of what that marvellous shacky and
rusty-looking armor of thine is made?"</p>
<p>"Oh, king," said the young knight, "seeing that we are about to
engage in a big fight, I would call it scrap iron, wouldn't you?"</p>
<p>"Ods Bodkins!" said the king. "The youth hath a pretty wit."</p>
<p>About this time the Princess Ostla, who began to feel better at
the sight of her lover, slipped a piece of gum into her mouth and
closed her teeth upon it, and even smiled a little and showed the
beautiful pearls with which her mouth was set. Whereupon, as soon
as the knights perceived this, 217 of them went over to the king's
treasurer and settled for their horse feed and went home.</p>
<p>"It seems very hard," said the princess, "that I cannot marry when
I chews."</p>
<p>But two of the knights were left, one of them being the princess'
lover.</p>
<p>"Here's enough for a fight, anyhow," said the king. "Come hither,
O knights, will ye joust for the hand of this fair lady?"</p>
<p>"We joust will," said the knights.</p>
<p>The two knights fought for two hours, and at length the princess'
lover prevailed and stretched the other upon the ground. The
victorious knight made his horse caracole before the king, and
bowed low in his saddle.</p>
<p>On the Princess Ostla's cheeks was a rosy flush; in her eyes the
light of excitement vied with the soft glow of love; her lips were
parted, her lovely hair unbound, and she grasped the arms of her
chair and leaned forward with heaving bosom and happy smile to
hear the words of her lover.</p>
<p>"You have foughten well, sir knight," said the king. "And if there
is any boon you crave you have but to name it."</p>
<p>"Then," said the knight, "I will ask you this: I have bought the
patent rights in your kingdom for Schneider's celebrated monkey
wrench, and I want a letter from you endorsing it."</p>
<p>"You shall have it," said the king, "but I must tell you that
there is not a monkey in my kingdom."</p>
<p>With a yell of rage the victorious knight threw himself on his
horse and rode away at a furious gallop.</p>
<p>The king was about to speak, when a horrible suspicion flashed
upon him and he fell dead upon the grandstand.</p>
<p>"My God!" he cried. "He has forgotten to take the princess with
him!"</p>
<h2>A STRANGE STORY</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[From <i>The Rolling Stone</i>.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>In the northern part of Austin there once dwelt an honest family
by the name of Smothers. The family consisted of John Smothers,
his wife, himself, their little daughter, five years of age, and
her parents, making six people toward the population of the city
when counted for a special write-up, but only three by actual
count.</p>
<p>One night after supper the little girl was seized with a severe
colic, and John Smothers hurried down town to get some medicine.</p>
<p>He never came back.</p>
<p>The little girl recovered and in time grew up to womanhood.</p>
<p>The mother grieved very much over her husband's disappearance, and
it was nearly three months before she married again, and moved to
San Antonio.</p>
<p>The little girl also married in time, and after a few years had
rolled around, she also had a little girl five years of age.</p>
<p>She still lived in the same house where they dwelt when her father
had left and never returned.</p>
<p>One night by a remarkable coincidence her little girl was taken
with cramp colic on the anniversary of the disappearance of John
Smothers, who would now have been her grandfather if he had been
alive and had a steady job.</p>
<p>"I will go downtown and get some medicine for her," said John
Smith (for it was none other than he whom she had married).</p>
<p>"No, no, dear John," cried his wife. "You, too, might disappear
forever, and then forget to come back."</p>
<p>So John Smith did not go, and together they sat by the bedside of
little Pansy (for that was Pansy's name).</p>
<p>After a little Pansy seemed to grow worse, and John Smith again
attempted to go for medicine, but his wife would not let him.</p>
<p>Suddenly the door opened, and an old man, stooped and bent, with
long white hair, entered the room.</p>
<p>"Hello, here is grandpa," said Pansy. She had recognized him
before any of the others.</p>
<p>The old man drew a bottle of medicine from his pocket and gave
Pansy a spoonful.</p>
<p>She got well immediately.</p>
<p>"I was a little late," said John Smothers, "as I waited for a
street car."</p>
<h2>FICKLE FORTUNE OR HOW GLADYS HUSTLED</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[From <i>The Rolling Stone</i>.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>"Press me no more Mr. Snooper," said Gladys Vavasour-Smith. "I can
never be yours."</p>
<p>"You have led me to believe different, Gladys," said Bertram D.
Snooper.</p>
<p>The setting sun was flooding with golden light the oriel windows
of a magnificent mansion situated in one of the most aristocratic
streets west of the brick yard.</p>
<p>Bertram D. Snooper, a poor but ambitious and talented young
lawyer, had just lost his first suit. He had dared to aspire to
the hand of Gladys Vavasour-Smith, the beautiful and talented
daughter of one of the oldest and proudest families in the county.
The bluest blood flowed in her veins. Her grandfather had sawed
wood for the Hornsbys and an aunt on her mother's side had married
a man who had been kicked by General Lee's mule.</p>
<p>The lines about Bertram D. Snooper's hands and mouth were drawn
tighter as he paced to and fro, waiting for a reply to the
question he intended to ask Gladys as soon as he thought of one.</p>
<p>At last an idea occurred to him.</p>
<p>"Why will you not marry me?" he asked in an inaudible tone.</p>
<p>"Because," said Gladys firmly, speaking easily with great
difficulty, "the progression and enlightenment that the woman of
to-day possesses demand that the man shall bring to the marriage
altar a heart and body as free from the debasing and hereditary
iniquities that now no longer exist except in the chimerical
imagination of enslaved custom."</p>
<p>"It is as I expected," said Bertram, wiping his heated brow on the
window curtain. "You have been reading books."</p>
<p>"Besides that," continued Gladys, ignoring the deadly charge, "you
have no money."</p>
<p>The blood of the Snoopers rose hastily and mantled the cheek of
Bertram D. He put on his coat and moved proudly to the door.</p>
<p>"Stay here till I return," he said, "I will be back in fifteen
years."</p>
<p>When he had finished speaking he ceased and left the room.</p>
<p>When he had gone, Gladys felt an uncontrollable yearning take
possession of her. She said slowly, rather to herself than for
publication, "I wonder if there was any of that cold cabbage left
from dinner."</p>
<p>She then left the room.</p>
<p>When she did so, a dark-complexioned man with black hair and
gloomy, desperate looking clothes, came out of the fireplace where
he had been concealed and stated:</p>
<p>"Aha! I have you in my power at last, Bertram D. Snooper. Gladys
Vavasour-Smith shall be mine. I am in the possession of secrets
that not a soul in the world suspects. I have papers to prove that
Bertram Snooper is the heir to the Tom Bean estate,
<a name="footnotetag12"></a><a href="#footnote12">[12]</a>
and I have discovered that Gladys'
grandfather who sawed wood for the Hornsby's was also a cook in
Major Rhoads Fisher's command during the war. Therefore, the
family repudiate her, and she will marry me in order to drag their
proud name down in the dust. Ha, ha, ha!"</p>
<p>As the reader has doubtless long ago discovered, this man was no
other than Henry R. Grasty. Mr. Grasty then proceeded to gloat
some more, and then with a sardonic laugh left for New York.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>Fifteen years have elapsed.</p>
<p>Of course, our readers will understand that this is only supposed
to the the case.</p>
<p>It really took less than a minute to make the little stars that
represent an interval of time.</p>
<p>We could not afford to stop a piece in the middle and wait fifteen
years before continuing it.</p>
<p>We hope this explanation will suffice. We are careful not to
create any wrong impressions.</p>
<p>Gladys Vavasour-Smith and Henry R. Grasty stood at the marriage
altar.</p>
<p>Mr. Grasty had evidently worked his rabbit's foot successfully,
although he was quite a while in doing so.</p>
<p>Just as the preacher was about to pronounce the fatal words on
which he would have realized ten dollars and had the laugh on Mr.
Grasty, the steeple of the church fell off and Bertram D. Snooper
entered.</p>
<p>The preacher fell to the ground with a dull thud. He could ill
afford to lose ten dollars. He was hastily removed and a cheaper
one secured.</p>
<p>Bertram D. Snooper held a <i>Statesman</i> in his hand.</p>
<p>"Aha!" he said, "I thought I would surprise you. I just got in
this morning. Here is a paper noticing my arrival."</p>
<p>He handed it to Henry R. Grasty.</p>
<p>Mr. Grasty looked at the paper and turned deadly pale. It was
dated three weeks after Mr. Snooper's arrival.</p>
<p>"Foiled again!" he hissed.</p>
<p>"Speak, Bertram D. Snooper," said Gladys, "why have you come
between me and Henry?"</p>
<p>"I have just discovered that I am the sole heir to Tom Bean's
estate and am worth two million dollars."</p>
<p>With a glad cry Gladys threw herself in Bertram's arms.</p>
<p>Henry R. Grasty drew from his breast pocket a large tin box and
opened it, took therefrom 467 pages of closely written foolscap.</p>
<p>"What you say is true, Mr. Snooper, but I ask you to read that,"
he said, handing it to Bertram Snooper.</p>
<p>Mr. Snooper had no sooner read the document than he uttered a
piercing shriek and bit off a large chew of tobacco.</p>
<p>"All is lost," he said.</p>
<p>"What is that document?" asked Gladys. "Governor Hogg's message?"</p>
<p>"It is not as bad as that," said Bertram, "but it deprives me of
my entire fortune. But I care not for that, Gladys, since I have
won you."</p>
<p>"What is it? Speak, I implore you," said Gladys.</p>
<p>"Those papers," said Henry R. Grasty, "are the proofs of my
appointment as administrator of the Tom Bean estate."</p>
<p>With a loving cry Gladys threw herself in Henry R. Grasty's arms.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>Twenty minutes later Bertram D. Snooper was seen deliberately to
enter a beer saloon on Seventeenth Street.</p>
<h2>AN APOLOGY</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[This appeared in <i>The Rolling Stone</i>
shortly before it "suspended publication" never to
resume.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>The person who sweeps the office, translates letters from foreign
countries, deciphers communications from graduates of business
colleges, and does most of the writing for this paper, has been
confined for the past two weeks to the under side of a large red
quilt, with a joint caucus of la grippe and measles.</p>
<p>We have missed two issues of <i>The Rolling Stone</i>, and are now
slightly convalescent, for which we desire to apologize and
express our regrets.</p>
<p>Everybody's term of subscription will be extended enough to cover
all missed issues, and we hope soon to report that the goose
remains suspended at a favorable altitude. People who have tried
to run a funny paper and entertain a congregation of large piebald
measles at the same time will understand something of the tact,
finesse, and hot sassafras tea required to do so. We expect to get
out the paper regularly from this time on, but are forced to be
very careful, as improper treatment and deleterious after-effects
of measles, combined with the high price of paper and presswork,
have been known to cause a relapse. Any one not getting their
paper regularly will please come down and see about it, bringing
with them a ham or any little delicacy relished by invalids.</p>
<h2>LORD OAKHURST'S CURSE</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[This story was sent to Dr. Beall of
Greensboro, N. C., in a letter in 1883, and so is one of O.
Henry's earliest attempts at writing.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<h3>I</h3>
<p>Lord Oakhurst lay dying in the oak chamber in the eastern wing of
Oakhurst Castle. Through the open window in the calm of the summer
evening, came the sweet fragrance of the early violets and budding
trees, and to the dying man it seemed as if earth's loveliness and
beauty were never so apparent as on this bright June day, his last
day of life.</p>
<p>His young wife, whom he loved with a devotion and strength that
the presence of the king of terrors himself could not alter, moved
about the apartment, weeping and sorrowful, sometimes arranging
the sick man's pillow and inquiring of him in low, mournful tones
if anything could be done to give him comfort, and again, with
stifled sobs, eating some chocolate caramels which she carried in
the pocket of her apron. The servants went to and fro with that
quiet and subdued tread which prevails in a house where death is
an expected guest, and even the crash of broken china and shivered
glass, which announced their approach, seemed to fall upon the ear
with less violence and sound than usual.</p>
<p>Lord Oakhurst was thinking of days gone by, when he wooed and won
his beautiful young wife, who was then but a charming and innocent
girl. How clearly and minutely those scenes rose up at the call of
his memory. He seemed to be standing once more beneath the old
chestnut grove where they had plighted their troth in the twilight
under the stars; while the rare fragrance of the June roses and
the smell of supper came gently by on the breeze. There he had
told her his love; how that his whole happiness and future joy lay
in the hope that he might win her for a bride; that if she would
trust her future to his care the devotedness of his lifetime
should be hers, and his only thought would be to make her life one
long day of sunshine and peanut candy.</p>
<p>How plainly he remembered how she had, with girlish shyness and
coyness, at first hesitated, and murmured something to herself
about "an old bald-beaded galoot," but when he told her that to
him life without her would be a blasted mockery, and that his
income was £50,000 a year, she threw herself on to him and froze
there with the tenacity of a tick on a brindled cow, and said,
with tears of joy, "Hen-ery, I am thine."</p>
<p>And now he was dying. In a few short hours his spirit would rise
up at the call of the Destroyer and, quitting his poor, weak,
earthly frame, would go forth into that dim and dreaded Unknown
Land, and solve with certainty that Mystery which revealeth itself
not to mortal man.</p>
<h3>II</h3>
<p>A carriage drove rapidly up the avenue and stopped at the door.
Sir Everhard FitzArmond, the famous London physician, who had been
telegraphed for, alighted and quickly ascended the marble steps.
Lady Oakhurst met him at the door, her lovely face expressing
great anxiety and grief. "Oh, Sir Everhard, I am so glad you have
come. He seems to be sinking rapidly. Did you bring the cream
almonds I mentioned in the telegram?"</p>
<p>Sir Everhard did not reply, but silently handed her a package,
and, slipping a couple of cloves into his mouth, ascended the
stairs that led to Lord Oakhurst's apartment. Lady Oakhurst
followed.</p>
<p>Sir Everhard approached the bedside of his patient and laid his
hand gently on this sick man's diagnosis. A shade of feeling
passed over his professional countenance as he gravely and
solemnly pronounced these words: "Madam, your husband has
croaked."</p>
<p>Lady Oakhurst at first did not comprehend his technical language,
and her lovely mouth let up for a moment on the cream almonds. But
soon his meaning flashed upon her, and she seized an axe that her
husband was accustomed to keep by his bedside to mangle his
servants with, and struck open Lord Oakhurst's cabinet containing
his private papers, and with eager hands opened the document which
she took therefrom. Then, with a wild, unearthly shriek that would
have made a steam piano go out behind a barn and kick itself in
despair, she fell senseless to the floor.</p>
<p>Sir Everhard FitzArmond picked up the paper and read its contents.
It was Lord Oakhurst's will, bequeathing all his property to a
scientific institution which should have for its object the
invention of a means for extracting peach brandy from sawdust.</p>
<p>Sir Everhard glanced quickly around the room. No one was in sight.
Dropping the will, he rapidly transferred some valuable ornaments
and rare specimens of gold and silver filigree work from the
centre table to his pockets, and rang the bell for the servants.</p>
<h3>III—THE CURSE</h3>
<p>Sir Everhard FitzArmond descended the stairway of Oakhurst Castle
and passed out into the avenue that led from the doorway to the
great iron gates of the park. Lord Oakhurst had been a great
sportsman during his life and always kept a well-stocked kennel of
curs, which now rushed out from their hiding places and with loud
yelps sprang upon the physician, burying their fangs in his lower
limbs and seriously damaging his apparel.</p>
<p>Sir Everllard, startled out of his professional dignity and usual
indifference to human suffering, by the personal application of
feeling, gave vent to a most horrible and blighting CURSE and ran
with great swiftness to his carriage and drove off toward the
city.</p>
<h2>BEXAR SCRIP NO. 2692</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[From <i>The Rolling Stone</i>, Saturday,
March 5, 1894.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p>Whenever you visit Austin you should by all means go to see the
General Land Office.</p>
<p>As you pass up the avenue you turn sharp round the corner of the
court house, and on a steep hill before you you see a
mediæval castle.</p>
<p>You think of the Rhine; the "castled crag of Drachenfels"; the
Lorelei; and the vine-clad slopes of Germany. And German it is in
every line of its architecture and design.</p>
<p>The plan was drawn by an old draftsman from the "Vaterland," whose
heart still loved the scenes of his native land, and it is said he
reproduced the design of a certain castle near his birthplace,
with remarkable fidelity.</p>
<p>Under the present administration a new coat of paint has
vulgarized its ancient and venerable walls. Modern tiles have
replaced the limestone slabs of its floors, worn in hollows by the
tread of thousands of feet, and smart and gaudy fixtures have
usurped the place of the time-worn furniture that has been
consecrated by the touch of hands that Texas will never cease to
honor.</p>
<p>But even now, when you enter the building, you lower your voice,
and time turns backward for you, for the atmosphere which you
breathe is cold with the exudation of buried generations.</p>
<p>The building is stone with a coating of concrete; the walls are
immensely thick; it is cool in the summer and warm in the winter;
it is isolated and sombre; standing apart from the other state
buildings, sullen and decaying, brooding on the past.</p>
<p>Twenty years ago it was much the same as now; twenty years from
now the garish newness will be worn off and it will return to its
appearance of gloomy decadence.</p>
<p>People living in other states can form no conception of the
vastness and importance of the work performed and the significance
of the millions of records and papers composing the archives of
this office.</p>
<p>The title deeds, patents, transfers and legal documents connected
with every foot of land owned in the state of Texas are filed
here.</p>
<p>Volumes could be filled with accounts of the knavery, the
double-dealing, the cross purposes, the perjury, the lies, the
bribery, the alteration and erasing, the suppressing and
destroying of papers, the various schemes and plots that for the
sake of the almighty dollar have left their stains upon the
records of the General Land Office.</p>
<p>No reference is made to the employees. No more faithful, competent
and efficient force of men exists in the clerical portions of any
government, but there is—or was, for their day is now over—a
class of land speculators commonly called land sharks,
unscrupulous and greedy, who have left their trail in every
department of this office, in the shape of titles destroyed,
patents cancelled, homes demolished and torn away, forged
transfers and lying affidavits.</p>
<p>Before the modern tiles were laid upon the floors, there were deep
hollows in the limestone slabs, worn by the countless feet that
daily trod uneasily through its echoing corridors, pressing from
file room to business room, from commissioner's sanctum to record
books and back again.</p>
<p>The honest but ignorant settler, bent on saving the little plot of
land he called home, elbowed the wary land shark who was searching
the records for evidence to oust him; the lordly cattle baron,
relying on his influence and money, stood at the Commissioner's
desk side by side with the preëmptor, whose little potato patch
lay like a minute speck of island in the vast, billowy sea, of his
princely pastures, and played the old game of "freeze-out," which
is as old as Cain and Abel.</p>
<p>The trail of the serpent is through it all.</p>
<p>Honest, earnest men have wrought for generations striving to
disentangle the shameful coil that certain years of fraud and
infamy have wound. Look at the files and see the countless
endorsements of those in authority:</p>
<p>"Transfer doubtful—locked up."</p>
<p>"Certificate a forgery—locked up."</p>
<p>"Signature a forgery."</p>
<p>"Patent refused—duplicate patented elsewhere."</p>
<p>"Field notes forged."</p>
<p>"Certificates stolen from office"—and soon ad infinitum.</p>
<p>The record books, spread upon long tables, in the big room
upstairs, are open to the examination of all. Open them, and you
will find the dark and greasy finger prints of half a century's
handling. The quick hand of the land grabber has fluttered the
leaves a million times; the damp clutch of the perturbed tiller of
the soil has left traces of his calling on the ragged leaves.</p>
<p>Interest centres in the file room.</p>
<p>This is a large room, built as a vault, fireproof, and entered by
but a single door.</p>
<p>There is "No Admission" on the portal; and the precious files are
handed out by a clerk in charge only on presentation of an order
signed by the Commissioner or chief clerk.</p>
<p>In years past too much laxity prevailed in its management, and the
files were handled by all comers, simply on their request, and
returned at their will, or not at all.</p>
<p>In these days most of the mischief was done. In the file room,
there are about –––– files, each in
a paper wrapper, and
comprising the title papers of a particular tract of land.</p>
<p>You ask the clerk in charge for the papers relating to any survey
in Texas. They are arranged simply in districts and numbers.</p>
<p>He disappears from the door, you hear the sliding of a tin box,
the lid snaps, and the file is in your hand.</p>
<p>Go up there some day and call for Bexar Scrip No. 2692.</p>
<p>The file clerk stares at you for a second, says shortly:</p>
<p>"Out of file."</p>
<p>It has been missing twenty years.</p>
<p>The history of that file has never been written before.</p>
<p>Twenty years ago there was a shrewd land agent living in Austin
who devoted his undoubted talents and vast knowledge of land
titles, and the laws governing them, to the locating of surveys
made by illegal certificates, or improperly made, and otherwise of
no value through non-compliance with the statutes, or whatever
flaws his ingenious and unscrupulous mind could unearth.</p>
<p>He found a fatal defect in the title of the land as on file in
Bexar Scrip No. 2692 and placed a new certificate upon the survey
in his own name.</p>
<p>The law was on his side.</p>
<p>Every sentiment of justice, of right, and humanity was against
him.</p>
<p>The certificate by virtue of which the original survey had been
made was missing.</p>
<p>It was not be found in the file, and no memorandum or date on the
wrapper to show that it had ever been filed.</p>
<p>Under the law the land was vacant, unappropriated public domain,
and open to location.</p>
<p>The land was occupied by a widow and her only son, and she
supposed her title good.</p>
<p>The railroad had surveyed a new line through the property, and it
had doubled in value.</p>
<p>Sharp, the land agent, did not communicate with her in any way
until he had filed his papers, rushed his claim through the
departments and into the patent room for patenting.</p>
<p>Then he wrote her a letter, offering her the choice of buying from
him or vacating at once.</p>
<p>He received no reply.</p>
<p>One day he was looking through some files and came across the
missing certificate. Some one, probably an employee of the office,
had by mistake, after making some examination, placed it in the
wrong file, and curiously enough another inadvertence, in there
being no record of its filing on the wrapper, had completed the
appearance of its having never been filed.</p>
<p>Sharp called for the file in which it belonged and scrutinized it
carefully, fearing he might have overlooked some endorsement
regarding its return to the office.</p>
<p>On the back of the certificate was plainly endorsed the date of
filing, according to law, and signed by the chief clerk.</p>
<p>If this certificate should be seen by the examining clerk, his own
claim, when it came up for patenting, would not be worth the paper
on which it was written.</p>
<p>Sharp glanced furtively around. A young man, or rather a boy about
eighteen years of age, stood a few feet away regarding him closely
with keen black eyes. Sharp, a little confused, thrust the
certificate into the file where it properly belonged and began
gathering up the other papers.</p>
<p>The boy came up and leaned on the desk beside him.</p>
<p>"A right interesting office, sir!" he said. "I have never been in
here before. All those papers, now, they are about lands, are they
not? The titles and deeds, and such things?"</p>
<p>"Yes," said Sharp. "They are supposed to contain all the title
papers."</p>
<p>"This one, now," said the boy, taking up Bexar Scrip No. 2692,
"what land does this represent the title of? Ah, I see 'Six
hundred and forty acres in B–––– country?
Absalom Harris, original
grantee.' Please tell me, I am so ignorant of these things, how
can you tell a good survey from a bad one. I am told that there
are a great many illegal and fraudulent surveys in this office. I
suppose this one is all right?"</p>
<p>"No," said Sharp. "The certificate is missing. It is invalid."</p>
<p>"That paper I just saw you place in that file, I suppose is
something else—field notes, or a transfer probably?"</p>
<p>"Yes," said Sharp, hurriedly, "corrected field notes. Excuse me, I
am a little pressed for time."</p>
<p>The boy was watching him with bright, alert eyes.</p>
<p>It would never do to leave the certificate in the file; but he
could not take it out with that inquisitive boy watching him.</p>
<p>He turned to the file room, with a dozen or more files in his
hands, and accidentally dropped part of them on the floor. As he
stooped to pick them up he swiftly thrust Bexar Scrip No. 2692 in
the inside breast pocket of his coat.</p>
<p>This happened at just half-past four o'clock, and when the file
clerk took the files he threw them in a pile in his room, came out
and locked the door.</p>
<p>The clerks were moving out of the doors in long, straggling lines.</p>
<p>It was closing time.</p>
<p>Sharp did not desire to take the file from the Land Office.</p>
<p>The boy might have seen him place the file in his pocket, and the
penalty of the law for such an act was very severe.</p>
<p>Some distance back from the file room was the draftsman's room now
entirely vacated by its occupants.</p>
<p>Sharp dropped behind the outgoing stream of men, and slipped slyly
into this room.</p>
<p>The clerks trooped noisily down the iron stairway, singing,
whistling, and talking.</p>
<p>Below, the night watchman awaited their exit, ready to close and
bar the two great doors to the south and cast.</p>
<p>It is his duty to take careful note each day that no one remains
in the building after the hour of closing.</p>
<p>Sharp waited until all sounds had ceased.</p>
<p>It was his intention to linger until everything was quiet, and
then to remove the certificate from the file, and throw the latter
carelessly on some draftsman's desk as if it had been left there
during the business of the day.</p>
<p>He knew also that he must remove the certificate from the office
or destroy it, as the chance finding of it by a clerk would lead
to its immediately being restored to its proper place, and the
consequent discovery that his location over the old survey was
absolutely worthless.</p>
<p>As he moved cautiously along the stone floor the loud barking of
the little black dog, kept by the watchman, told that his sharp
ears had heard the sounds of his steps.</p>
<p>The great, hollow rooms echoed loudly, move as lightly
as he could.</p>
<p>Sharp sat down at a desk and laid the file before him.</p>
<p>In all his queer practices and cunning tricks
he had not yet included any act that was downright criminal.</p>
<p>He had always kept on the safe side of the law,
but in the deed he was about to commit there was no
compromise to be made with what little conscience he had left.</p>
<p>There is no well-defined boundary line between honesty and
dishonesty.</p>
<p>The frontiers of one blend with the outside limits of the other,
and he who attempts to tread this dangerous ground may be
sometimes in one domain and sometimes in the other; so the only
safe road is the broad highway that leads straight through and has
been well defined by line and compass.</p>
<p>Sharp was a man of what is called high standing in the community.
That is, his word in a trade was as good as any man's; his check
was as good as so much cash, and so regarded; he went to church
regularly; went in good society and owed no man anything.</p>
<p>He was regarded as a sure winner in any land trade he chose to
make, but that was his occupation.</p>
<p>The act he was about to commit now would place him forever in the
ranks of those who chose evil for their portion—if it was found
out.</p>
<p>More than that, it would rob a widow and her son of property soon
to be of great value, which, if not legally theirs, was theirs
certainly by every claim of justice.</p>
<p>But he had gone too far to hesitate.</p>
<p>His own survey was in the patent room for patenting. His own title
was about to be perfected by the State's own hand.</p>
<p>The certificate must be destroyed.</p>
<p>He leaned his head on his hands for a moment, and as he did so a
sound behind him caused his heart to leap with guilty fear, but
before he could rise, a hand came over his shoulder and grasped
the file.</p>
<p>He rose quickly, as white as paper, rattling his chair loudly on
the stone floor.</p>
<p>The boy who land spoken to him earlier stood contemplating him
with contemptuous and flashing eyes, and quietly placed the file
in the left breast pocket of his coat.</p>
<p>"So, Mr. Sharp, by nature as well as by name," he said, "it seems
that I was right in waiting behind the door in order to see you
safely out. You will appreciate the pleasure I feel in having done
so when I tell you my name is Harris. My mother owns the land on
which you have filed, and if there is any justice in Texas she
shall hold it. I am not certain, but I think I saw you place a
paper in this file this afternoon, and it is barely possible that
it may be of value to me. I was also impressed with the idea that
you desired to remove it again, but had not the opportunity.
Anyway, I shall keep it until to-morrow and let the Commissioner
decide."</p>
<p>Far back among Mr. Sharp's ancestors there must have been some of
the old berserker blood, for his caution, his presence of mind
left him, and left him possessed of a blind, devilish, unreasoning
rage that showed itself in a moment in the white glitter of his
eye.</p>
<p>"Give me that file, boy," he said, thickly, holding out his hand.</p>
<p>"I am no such fool, Mr. Sharp," said the youth. "This file shall
be laid before the Commissioner to-morrow for examination. If he
finds—Help! Help!"</p>
<p>Sharp was upon him like a tiger and bore him to the floor. The boy
was strong and vigorous, but the suddenness of the attack gave him
no chance to resist. He struggled up again to his feet, but it was
an animal, with blazing eyes and cruel-looking teeth that fought
him, instead of a man.</p>
<p>Mr. Sharp, a man of high standing and good report, was battling
for his reputation.</p>
<p>Presently there was a dull sound, and another, and still one more,
and a blade flashing white and then red, and Edward Harris dropped
down like some stuffed effigy of a man, that boys make for sport,
with his limbs all crumpled and lax, on the stone floor of the
Land Office.</p>
<p>The old watchman was deaf, and heard nothing.</p>
<p>The little dog barked at the foot of the stairs until his master
made him come into his room.</p>
<p>Sharp stood there for several minutes holding in his hand his
bloody clasp knife, listening to the cooing of the pigeons on the
roof, and the loud ticking of the clock above the receiver's desk.</p>
<p>A map rustled on the wall and his blood turned to ice; a rat ran
across some strewn papers, and his scalp prickled, and he could
scarcely moisten his dry lips with his tongue.</p>
<p>Between the file room and the draftsman's room there is a door
that opens on a small dark spiral stairway that winds from the
lower floor to the ceiling at the top of the house.</p>
<p>This stairway was not used then, nor is it now.</p>
<p>It is unnecessary, inconvenient, dusty, and dark as night, and was
a blunder of the architect who designed the building.</p>
<p>This stairway ends above at the tent-shaped space between the roof
and the joists.</p>
<p>That space is dark and forbidding, and being useless is rarely
visited.</p>
<p>Sharp opened this door and gazed for a moment up this narrow
cobwebbed stairway.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>After dark that night a man opened cautiously one of the lower
windows of the Land Office, crept out with great circumspection
and disappeared in the shadows.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>One afternoon, a week after this time, Sharp lingered behind again
after the clerks had left and the office closed. The next morning
the first comers noticed a broad mark in the dust on the upstairs
floor, and the same mark was observed below stairs near a window.</p>
<p>It appeared as if some heavy and rather bulky object had been
dragged along through the limestone dust. A memorandum book with
"E. Harris" written on the flyleaf was picked up on the stairs,
but nothing particular was thought of any of these signs.</p>
<p>Circulars and advertisements appeared for a long time in the
papers asking for information concerning Edward Harris, who left
his mother's home on a certain date and had never been heard of
since.</p>
<p>After a while these things were succeeded by affairs of more
recent interest, and faded from the public mind.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>Sharp died two years ago, respected and regretted. The last two
years of his life were clouded with a settled melancholy for which
his friends could assign no reason. The bulk of his comfortable
fortune was made from the land he obtained by fraud and crime.</p>
<p>The disappearance of the file was a mystery that created some
commotion in the Land Office, but he got his patent.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p>It is a well-known tradition in Austin and vicinity that there is
a buried treasure of great value somewhere on the banks of Shoal
Creek, about a mile west of the city.</p>
<p>Three young men living in Austin recently became possessed of what
they thought was a clue of the whereabouts of the treasure, and
Thursday night they repaired to the place after dark and plied the
pickaxe and shovel with great diligence for about three hours.</p>
<p>At the end of that time their efforts were rewarded by the finding
of a box buried about four feet below the surface, which they
hastened to open.</p>
<p>The light of a lantern disclosed to their view the fleshless bones
of a human skeleton with clothing still wrapping its uncanny
limbs.</p>
<p>They immediately left the scene and notified the proper
authorities of their ghastly find.</p>
<p>On closer examination, in the left breast pocket of the skeleton's
coat, there was found a flat, oblong packet of papers, cut through
and through in three places by a knife blade, and so completely
soaked and clotted with blood that it had become an almost
indistinguishable mass.</p>
<p>With the aid of a microscope and the exercise of a little
imagination this much can be made out of the letter; at the top of
the papers:</p>
<p class="noindent">B–xa– 
––rip  N– 2–92.</p>
<h2>QUERIES AND ANSWERS</h2>
<blockquote><blockquote class="small">
<p class="noindent">[From <i>The Rolling Stone</i>, June 23,
1894.]</p>
</blockquote></blockquote>
<p class="jus">Can you inform me where I
can buy an interest in a newspaper of
some kind? I have some money and would be glad to invest it in
something of the sort, if some one would allow me to put in my
capital against his experience.</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">College Graduate</span>.</p>
<p>Telegraph us your address at once, day message. Keep telegraphing
every ten minutes at our expense until we see you. Will start on
first train after receiving your wire.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Who was the author of the
line, "Breathes there a man with soul so dead?"</p>
<p class="jright">G. F.</p>
<p>This was written by a visitor to the State Saengerfest of 1892
while conversing with a member who had just eaten a large slice of
limburger cheese.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Where can I get the
"Testimony of the Rocks"?</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Geologist</span>.</p>
<p>See the reports of the campaign committees after the election in
November.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Please state what the seven
wonders of the world are. I know five
of them, I think, but can't find out the other two.</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Scholar</span>.</p>
<p>The Temple of Diana, at Lexington, Ky.; the Great Wall of China;
Judge Von Rosenberg (the Colossus of Roads); the Hanging Gardens
at Albany; a San Antonio Sunday school; Mrs. Frank Leslie, and the
Populist party.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">What day did Christmas come
on in the year 1847?</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Constant Reader</span>.</p>
<p>The 25th of December.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">What does an F. F. V. mean?</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Ignorant</span>.</p>
<p>What does he mean by what? If he takes you by the arm and tells
you how much you are like a brother of his in Richmond, he means
Feel For Your Vest, for he wants to borrow a five. If he holds his
head high and don't speak to you on the street he means that he
already owes you ten and is Following a Fresh Victim.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Please decide a bet for us.
My friend says that the sentence, "The
negro bought the watermelon <i>of</i> the farmer" is correct, and I
say it should be "The negro bought the watermelon from the farmer."
Which is correct?</p>
<p class="jright">R.</p>
<p>Neither. It should read, "The negro stole the watermelon from the
farmer."</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">When do the Texas game laws
go into effect?</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Hunter</span>.</p>
<p>When you sit down at the table.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Do you know where I can
trade a section of fine Panhandle land for a pair of pants with
a good title?</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Land Agent</span>.</p>
<p>We do not. You can't raise anything on land in that section. A man
can always raise a dollar on a good pair of pants.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Name in order the three best
newspapers in Texas.</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Advertiser</span>.</p>
<p>Well, the Galveston <i>News</i> runs about second, and the San
Antonio <i>Express</i> third. Let us hear from you again.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Has a married woman any
rights in Texas?</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Prospector</span>.</p>
<p>Hush, Mr. Prospector. Not quite so loud, if you please. Come up to
the office some afternoon, and if everything seems quiet, come
inside, and look at our eye, and our suspenders hanging on to one
button, and feel the lump on the top of our head. Yes, she has
some rights of her own, and everybody else's she can scoop in.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Who was the author of the
sayings, "A public office is a public
trust," and "I would rather be right than President"?</p>
<p>Eli Perkins.</p>
<hr class="tiny"/>
<p class="jus"> </p><p class="jus">Is the Lakeside Improvement
Company making anything out of their own town tract on the lake?</p>
<p class="jright"><span class="smallcaps">Inquisitive</span>.</p>
<p>Yes, lots.</p>
<h2>Footnotes</h2>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote1"></a>
<b>Footnote 1</b>:</p>
<p>O. Henry</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag1">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote2"></a>
<b>Footnote 2</b>:</p>
<p>Mother of O. Henry</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag2">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote3"></a>
<b>Footnote 3</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag3">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote4"></a>
<b>Footnote 4</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag4">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote5"></a>
<b>Footnote 5</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag5">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote6"></a>
<b>Footnote 6</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag6">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote7"></a>
<b>Footnote 7</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag7">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote8"></a>
<b>Footnote 8</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag8">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote9"></a>
<b>Footnote 9</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag9">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote10"></a>
<b>Footnote 10</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag10">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote11"></a>
<b>Footnote 11</b>:</p>
<p>See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well," in the
    daily newspapers.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag11">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="footnote">
<p class="noindent"><a name="footnote12"></a>
<b>Footnote 12</b>:</p>
<p>An estate famous in Texas legal history. It took many, many
    years for adjustment and a large part of the property was, of
    course, consumed as expenses of litigation.</p>
<p><a href="#footnotetag12">(return)</a></p>
</blockquote>
<hr class="full"/>
