<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>A LUNAR EPISODE</h2>
			<p>The scene was one of supernatural weirdness. Tall, fantastic mountains reared their seamed peaks over a dreary waste of igneous rock and burned-out lava beds. Deep lakes of black water stood motionless as glass under frowning, honey-combed crags, from which ever and anon dropped crumbled masses with a sullen plunge. Vegetation there was none. Bitter cold reigned and ridges of black and shapeless rocks cut the horizon on all sides. An extinct volcano loomed against a purple sky, black as night and old as the world.</p>
			<p>The firmament was studded with immense stars that shone with a wan and spectral light. Orion’s belt hung high above.</p>
			<p>Aldebaran faintly shone millions of miles away, and the earth gleamed like a new-risen moon with a lurid, blood-like glow.</p>
			<p>On a lofty mountain that hung toppling above an ink-black sea stood a dwelling built of stone. From its solitary window came a bright light that gleamed upon the misshapen rocks. The door opened and two men emerged locked in a deadly struggle.</p>
			<p>They swayed and twisted upon the edge of the precipice, now one gaining the advantage, now the other.</p>
			<p>Strong men they were, and stone rolled from their feet into the valley as each strove to overcome the other.</p>
			<p>At length one prevailed. He seized his opponent, and raising him high above his head, hurled him into space.</p>
			<p>The vanquished combatant shot through the air like a stone from a catapult in the direction of the luminous earth.</p>
			<p>“That’s three of ’em this week, “said the Man in the Moon as he lit a cigarette and turned back into the house. “Those New York interviewers are going to make me tired if they keep this thing up much longer.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
