<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 32</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Telegram</h2>
			<p>Scene: Telegraph office in Houston.</p>
			<p>(Enter handsome black velour cape, trimmed with jet and braid, with Tibetan fur collar, all enclosing lovely young lady.)</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Oh, I want to send a telegram at once, if you please. Give me about six blanks, please. (<i>Writes about ten minutes.</i>) How much will this amount to, please?</p>
			<p>Clerk (<i>counting words</i>)⁠—Sixteen dollars and ninety-five cents, ma’am.</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Goodness gracious! I’ve only thirty cents with me. (<i>Suspiciously</i>.) How is it you charge so much, when the post-office only requires two cents?</p>
			<p>Clerk⁠—We claim to deliver messages quicker than the post-office, ma’am. You can send ten words to Waco for twenty-five cents.</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Give me another blank, please: I guess that will be enough.</p>
			<p>(<i>After five minutes’ hard work she produces the following:</i>)</p>
			<p>“Ring was awfully lovely. Come down as soon as you can. Mamie.”</p>
			<p>Clerk⁠—This contains eleven words. That will be thirty cents.</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Oh, gracious! I wanted that nickel to buy gum with.</p>
			<p>Clerk⁠—Let’s see. You might strike out, “awfully,” and that will make it all right.</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Indeed I sha’n’t. You ought to see that ring. I’ll give you the thirty cents.</p>
			<p>Clerk⁠—To whom is this to be sent?</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—It seems to me you are rather inquisitive, sir.</p>
			<p>Clerk (<i>wearily</i>)⁠—I assure you there is no personal interest expressed in the question. We have to know the name and address in order to send the message.</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Oh, yes. I didn’t think of that. (<i>She writes the name and address, pays the thirty cents and departs. Twenty minutes later she returns, out of breath.</i>)</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Oh, I forgot something. Have you sent it off yet?</p>
			<p>Clerk⁠—Yes, ten minutes ago.</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Oh, I’m so sorry. It isn’t the way I wanted it at all. Can’t you telegraph and have it changed for me?</p>
			<p>Clerk⁠—Is it anything important?</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Yes: I wanted to underscore the words “awfully lovely.” Will you have that attended to at once?</p>
			<p>Clerk⁠—Certainly, and we have some real nice violet extract; would you like a few drops on your telegram?</p>
			<p>Young lady⁠—Oh, yes: so kind of you. I expect to send all my telegrams through your office, you have been so accommodating. Good morning.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
