<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 73</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-73" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Rileys Luck</h2>
			<p>Riley was a lazy fellow,</p>
			<p>Never worked a bit;</p>
			<p>All day long in some store comer On a chair he’d sit.</p>
			<p>Never talked much⁠—too much trouble⁠—Tired his jaws, you see;</p>
			<p>When his folks got out of victuals,</p>
			<p>“Just my luck!” says he.</p>
			<p>Fellow offered him ten dollars If he’d work two days;</p>
			<p>Riley crossed his legs and looked up Through the sun’s hot rays;</p>
			<p>Then he leaned back in the shadow, Sadly shook his head;</p>
			<p>“Never asked me till hot weather⁠—Just my luck !” he said.</p>
			<p>Riley courted Sally Hopkins In a quiet way;</p>
			<p>When he saw Jim Dobsen kiss her, “Just my luck!” he’d say.</p>
			<p>Leap Year came, and Mandy Perkins Sought his company;</p>
			<p>Riley sighed, and married Mandy⁠—“Just my luck!” he’d say.</p>
			<p>Riley took his wife out fishing In a little boat;</p>
			<p>Storm blew up and turned them over; Mandy couldn’t float.</p>
			<p>Riley sprang into the river,</p>
			<p>Seized her by the hair.</p>
			<p>Swam a mile into the shore where Friends pulled out the pair.</p>
			<p>Mandy was so full of water Seemed she’d surely die.</p>
			<p>Doctors worked with her two hours Ere she moved an eye.</p>
			<p>They told Riley she was better;</p>
			<p>Doctors were in glee.</p>
			<p>Riley chewed an old pine splinter⁠—</p>
			<p>“Just my luck!” says he.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
