<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 65</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-65" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>The Prisoner of Zembla</h2>
			<h3>By Anthony Hoke </h3>
			<p>So the king fell into a furious rage, so that none durst go near him for fear, and he gave out that since the Princess Astla had disobeyed him there would be a great tourney, and to the knight who should prove himself of the greatest valor he would give the hand of the princess.</p>
			<p>And he sent forth a herald to proclaim that he would do this.</p>
			<p>And the herald went about the country making his desire known, blowing a great tin horn and riding a noble steed that pranced and gamboled; and the villagers gazed upon him with awe and said: “Lo, that is one of them tin horn gamblers concerning which the chroniclers have told us.”</p>
			<p>And when the day came, the king sat in the grand stand, holding the gage of battle in his hand, and by his side sat the Princess Astla, looking very pale and beautiful, but with mournful eyes from which she scarce could keep the tears, and the knights who came to the tourney gazed upon the princess in wonder at her beauty, and each swore to win her so that he could marry her and board with the king. Suddenly the heart of the princess gave a great bound, for she saw among the knights one of the poor students with whom she had been in love.</p>
			<p>The knights mounted and rode in a line past the grand stand, and the king stopped the poor student, who had the worst horse and the poorest caparisons of any of the knights, and said:</p>
			<p>“Sir knight, prithee tell me of what that marvelous shaky and rusty-looking armor of thine is made?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, king,” said the young knight, “seeing that we are about to engage in a big fight, I would call it scrap iron, wouldn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Ods bodikins!” said the king. “The youth hath a pretty wit.”</p>
			<p>The tourney lasted the whole day and at the end but two of the knights were left, one of them being the princess’s lover.</p>
			<p>“Here’s enough for a fight, anyhow,” said the king. “Come hither, oh knights, will ye joust for the hand of this lady fair?”</p>
			<p>“We joust will,” said the knights.</p>
			<p>The two knights fought for two hours and at length the princess’s lover prevailed and stretched the other upon the ground. The victorious knight made his horse caracole before the king, and bowed low in his saddle.</p>
			<p>On the Princess Astla’s cheek was a rosy flush; in her eyes the light of excitement vied with the soft glow of love; her lips were parted, her lovely hair unbound, and she grasped the arms of her chair and leaned forward with heaving bosom and happy smile to hear the words of her lover.</p>
			<p>“You have fought well, sir knight,” said the king. “And if there is any boon you crave you have but to name it.”</p>
			<p>“Then,” said the knight, “I will ask you this: I have bought the patent rights in your kingdom for Schneider’s celebrated monkey wrench and I want a letter from you indorsing it.”</p>
			<p>“You shall have it,” said the king, “but I must tell you that there is not a monkey in my kingdom.”</p>
			<p>With a yell of rage the victorious knight threw himself on his horse and rode away at a furious gallop.</p>
			<p>The king was about to speak when a horrible suspicion flashed upon him and he fell dead upon the grand stand.</p>
			<p>“My God!” he cried, as he expired, “he has forgotten to take the princess with him.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
