<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Getting at the Facts</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="getting-at-the-facts" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Getting at the Facts</h2>
			<p>It was late in the afternoon and the day staff was absent. The night editor had just come in, pulled off his coat, vest, collar, and necktie, rolled up his shirtsleeves and eased down his suspenders, and was getting ready for work.</p>
			<p>Someone knocked timidly outside the door, and the night editor yelled, “Come in.”</p>
			<p>A handsome young lady with entreating blue eyes and a Psyche knot entered with a rolled manuscript in her hand.</p>
			<p>The night editor took it silently and unrolled it. It was a poem and he read it half aloud with a convulsive jaw movement that resulted from his organs of speech being partially engaged with about a quarter of a plug of chewing tobacco. The poem ran thus:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>A Requiem</header>
				<p>
					<span>The soft, sweet, solemn dawn stole through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The latticed room’s deep gloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lay in pallid, pulseless peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fulfilled his final doom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, breaking heart of mine⁠—oh, break!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left lonely here to mourn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My alter ego, mentor, friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus from me rudely torn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within his chamber dead he lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stilled is his sweet lyre;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How long he pored o’er midnight oil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With grand poetic fire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till came the crash, when his bright light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went out, and all was drear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my sad soul was left to wait</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In grief and anguish here.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“When did this happen?” asked the night editor.</p>
			<p>I wrote it last night, sir,” said the young lady. “Is it good enough to print?”</p>
			<p>“Last night! H’m. A little stale, but the other papers didn’t get it. Now, miss,” continued the night editor, smiling and throwing out his chest, “I’m going to teach you a lesson in the newspaper business. We can use this item, but it’s not in proper shape. Just take that chair, and I’ll rewrite it for you, showing you how to properly condense a news item in order to secure its insertion.”</p>
			<p>The young lady seated herself and the night editor knitted his brows and read over the poem two or three times to get the main points. He then wrote a few lines upon a sheet of paper and said:</p>
			<p>Now, miss, here is the form in which your item will appear when we print it:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>
					<b>Fatal Accident</b>
				</p>
				<p>Last evening <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Alter Ego of this city was killed by the explosion of a kerosene lamp while at work in his room.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Now, you see, miss, the item includes the main facts in the case, and—”</p>
			<p>“Sir!” said the young lady indignantly. “There is nothing of the kind intimated in the poem. The lines are imaginary and are intended to express the sorrow of a poet’s friend at his untimely demise.”</p>
			<p>Why, miss,” said the night editor, “it plainly refers to midnight oil, and a crash, and when the light blew up the gent was left for dead in the room.”</p>
			<p>“You horrid thing,” said the young lady, “give me my manuscript. I will bring it back when the literary editor is in.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” said the night editor as he handed her the roll. “We’re short on news tonight, and it would have made a nice little scoop. Don’t happen to know of any accidents in your ward: births, runaways, holdups, or breach of promise suits, do you?”</p>
			<p>But the slamming of the door was the only answer from the fair poetess.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
