<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>His Dilemma</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="his-dilemma" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">His Dilemma</h2>
			<p>An old man with long white chin whiskers and a derby hat two sizes small, dropped into a Main Street drug store yesterday and beckoned a clerk over into a corner. He was about sixty-five years old, but he wore a bright red necktie, and was trying to smoke a very bad and strong cigar in as offhand a style as possible.</p>
			<p>“Young man,” he said, “you lemme ask you a few questions, and I’ll send you a big watermelon up from the farm next summer. I came to Houston to see this here carnival, and do some tradin’. Right now, before I go any further, have you got any hair dye?”</p>
			<p>“Plenty of it.”</p>
			<p>“Any of this real black shiny dye that looks blue in the sunshine?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“All right then, now I’ll proceed. Do you know anything about this here Monroe docterin’?”</p>
			<p>“Well, yes, something.”</p>
			<p>“And widders; do you feel able to prognosticate a few lines about widders?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t tell what you are driving at,” said the clerk. “What is it you want to know?”</p>
			<p>“I’m gettin’ to the pint. Now there’s hair dye, Monroe docterin’, and widders. Got them all down in your mind?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but—”</p>
			<p>“Jest hold on, now, and I’ll explain. There’s the unhappiest fat and sassy widder moved into the adiinin’ farm to me, you ever see, and if I knows the female heart she has cast eyes of longin’ upon yours truly. Now if I dyes these here white whiskers I ketches her. By blackin’ said whiskers and insertin’ say four fingers of rye where it properly belongs, I kicks up my heels and I waltzes up and salutes the widder like a calf of forty.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the clerk, “our hair dye is—”</p>
			<p>“Wait a minute, young feller. Now on the other hand I hears rumors of wars this mornin’, and I hears alarmin’ talk about this here Monroe docterin’. Ef I uses hair dye and trains down to thirty-eight or forty years of age, I ketches the widder, but I turns into a peart and chipper youth what is liable to be made to fight in this here great war. Ef I gives up the hair dye, the recrutin’ sargent salutes these white hairs and passes by, but I am takin’ big chances on the widder. She has been to meetin’ twicet with a man what has been divorced, and ties his own cree-vat, and this here Monroe docterin’ is all what keeps me from pulling out seventy-five cents and makin’ a strong play with said dye. What would you do, ef you was me, young feller?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think there will be any war soon,” said the clerk.</p>
			<p>“Jerusalem; I’m glad to hear it! Gimme the biggest bottle of blue-black hair dye fur seventy-five cents that you got. I’m goin’ to purpose to that widder before it gets dry, and risk the chances of Monroe takin’ water again on this war business.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
