<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Reconciliation: A One-Act Drama</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="reconciliation" epub:type="volume se:short-story z3998:drama">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span>Reconciliation</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">A One-Act Drama</span>
			</h2>
			<div epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
				<header>
					<p>Dramatis Personae</p>
				</header>
				<ul>
					<li>
						<p>A Houston married couple.</p>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<p epub:type="z3998:scene"><b>Scene</b>⁠—Her boudoir.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>And now, Viola, since we understand each other, let us never fall out again. Let us forget the bitter words that we have spoken one to another, and resolve to dwell always in love and affection. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Places his arm around her waist.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>Oh, Charles, you don’t know how happy you make me! Of course we will never quarrel again. Life is too short to waste in petty bickerings and strife. Let us keep in the primrose path of love, and never stray from it any more. Oh, what bliss to think you love me and nothing can ever come between us! Just like the old days when we used to meet by the lilac hedge, isn’t it? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lays her head on his shoulder.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Yes, and when I used to pull blossoms and twine them in your hair and call you Queen Titania.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>Oh, that was nice. I remember. Queen Titania? Oh, yes, she was one of Shakespeare’s characters, who fell in love with a man with a donkey’s head.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>H’m!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>Now don’t. I didn’t mean you. Oh, Charles, listen to the Christmas chimes! What a merry day it will be for us. Are you sure you love me as well as you used to?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>More. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smack.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>Does ’em fink me sweet?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smack. Smack!</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>Wuz ’em’s toodleums?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Awful heap. Who do you wuv?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>My ownest own old boy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smack!</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Listen, the bells are chiming again. We should be doubly happy, love, for we have passed through stormy seas of doubt and anger. But now, a light is breaking, and the rosy dawn of love has returned.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>And should abide with us forever. Oh, Charles, let us never again by word or look cause pain to each other.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Never again. And you will not scold any more?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>No, dearest. You know I never have unless you gave me cause.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Sometimes you have become angry and said hard things without any reason.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>Maybe you think so, but I don’t. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lifts her head from his shoulder.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>I know what I’m talking about. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Takes his arm from her waist.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>You come home cross because you haven’t got sense enough to conduct your business properly, and take your spite out on me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>You make me tired. You get on your ear because you are naturally one of the cain-raising, blab-mouthed kind and can’t help it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td>You old crosspatch of a liar from Liarsville, don’t you talk to me that way or I’ll scratch your eyes out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>You blamed wildcat. I wish I had been struck by lightning before I ever met you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Seizing the broom.</i> Biff! biff! biff.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">After reaching the sidewalk</i> I wonder if Colonel Ingersoll is right when he says suicide is no sin!</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>
				<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain</i>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
