<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Relieved</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="relieved" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Relieved</h2>
			<p>A Houston gentleman who is worth somewhere up in the hundreds of thousands and lives on eleven dollars a week, was sitting in his private office a few days ago, when a desperatelooking man entered and closed the door carefully behind him. The man had an evil, villainouslooking face, and in his hand he held with the utmost care an oblong, square-shaped package. “What do you want?” asked the capitalist.</p>
			<p>“I must have money,” hissed the stranger. I am starving while you are rolling in wealth. Do you see this little package? Do you know what it contains?”</p>
			<p>The wealthy citizen sprang from his desk in horror, pale with fright.</p>
			<p>“No, no,” he gasped. “You would not be so cruel, so heartless.”</p>
			<p>“This package,” continued the desperate man, “contains enough dynamite, if let fall upon the floor, to hurl this building into a shapeless mass of ruins.”</p>
			<p>“Is that all?” said the capitalist, sinking into his chair and picking up his newspaper with a sigh of relief. “You don’t know how much you frightened me. I thought it was a gold brick.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
