<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Some Ancient News Notes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="some-ancient-news-notes" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Some Ancient News Notes</h2>
			<p>It will be remembered that a short while ago, some very ancient documents and records were discovered in an old monastery on <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Sinai, where they have been kept filed away by the monks among their dusty archives. Some of them antedate the oldest writings previously known by one hundred years. The finders claim that among them are the original Scripture traced in Syriac language, and that they differ in many material ways from the translation in use. We have procured some advance sheets from the discoverers and in a few fragments given below our readers will perceive that human nature was pretty much the same a thousand years ago. It is evident from the palimpsests in our possession that newspapers were not entirely unknown even at that early date. We give some random translations from the original manuscripts:</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Commodore Noah, one of our oldest citizens, predicts a big rain soon. The commodore is building an up-to-date houseboat and expects to spend about six weeks afloat with his family and his private menagerie.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Colonel Goliath of Gath, and the new middleweight, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> David, are at their old tricks again blowing about the championship. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> David has one hand in a sling, but says he will be all right when the affair is pulled off. A little more fighting and less talking would please the readers of the Daily Cymbal.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Ladies, get one of those new fig leaves at the Eden Bazaar before the style is dropped.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“The exposition at Shinar is going to be a grand success. Work on the New Woman’s Building called the Tower of Babel has been stopped on account of a misunderstanding. The lady managers have been holding meetings in the Tower for some time.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“See Professor Daniel and his performing lions next Sunday.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Colonel Job, who has been suffering from quite a siege of boils at his residence on Avenue C, was arrested yesterday for cussing and disturbing the neighborhood. The colonel has generally a very equable temper, but completely lost his balance on finding that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Job had put a large quantity of starch in his only night robe.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“About 1,500 extra deputy clerks were put on by the county clerk yesterday to assist in getting out summonses for witnesses in the divorce case recently brought by Judge Solomon against the last batch of his wives.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
