<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Something for Baby</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="something-for-baby" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Something for Baby</h2>
			<p>This is nothing but a slight jar in the happy holiday music; a minor note struck by the finger of Fate, slipping upon the keys, as anthems of rejoicing and Christmas carols make the Yuletide merry.</p>
			<p>The Post man stood yesterday in one of the largest fancy and drygoods stores on Main Street, watching the throng of well-dressed buyers, mostly ladies, who were turning over the stock of Christmas notions and holiday goods.</p>
			<p>Presently a little, slim, white-faced girl crept timidly through the crowd to the counter. She was dressed in thin calico, and her shoes were patched and clumsy.</p>
			<p>She looked about her with a manner half mournful, half scared.</p>
			<p>A clerk saw her and came forward.</p>
			<p>“Well, what is it?” he asked rather shortly.</p>
			<p>“Please, sir,” she answered in a weak voice, “Mamma gave me this dime to get something for baby.”</p>
			<p>“Something for baby, for a dime? Want to buy baby a Christmas present, eh? Well now, don’t you think you had better run around to a toyshop? We don’t keep such things here. You want a tin horse, or a ball, or a jumping jack, now don’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Please, sir, Mamma said I was to come here. Baby isn’t with us now. Mamma told me to get⁠—ten⁠—cents⁠—worth⁠—of⁠—crape, sir, if you please.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
