<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Bruised Reed</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-bruised-reed" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Bruised Reed</h2>
<p>The popular preacher sat in his study before a glowing grate, and a satisfied smile stole over his features, as he remembered his sermon of that morning. He had struck strong blows at sin; relating to his breathless congregation in plain and burning words, tales of the wickedness, debauchery, drunkenness and depravity that was going on in their very midst.</p>
<p>Following the prominent example of a certain pureminded and original servant of the Lord, he had gone down himself among the lowest haunts of vice and iniquity, and there sketched in his mind those flaming and accusive portraits that he had painted before the astonished eyes of his congregation, with a broad brush and vivid colors. He had heard blasphemies from lips that were once as pure as his sisters'; he had stood in the midst of unbridled vice, where wine flowed like water and amidst songs, curses, laughing and revelry, the chink of money, earned by dripping hearts' blood, could be heard as it fell into the coffers of the devil. Oh, he had astonished his flock! He had hurled at them fiery words of blame that these things were allowed to exist. It had been a new departure for him, but he expected grand results. And now he sat by his anthracite fire, and thought over the success of his labors, and smiled with satisfaction. The latch of his study door clicked and a being entered. He was grizzly, rum-soaked, dirty, ragged, disreputable, blear-eyed and of uncertain step. Once, he might have been a man.</p>
<p>Across his forehead stretched a long strip of dingy court plaster; on the bridge of his nose an unhealed wound showed scarlet against the milder red of his face. He brought with him an odor of disrespectability, rum and unsanctification.</p>
<p>The preacher rose; a slight distension visible in his delicate nostril; a little shiver of repulsion rippling through his broadcloth-vestured figure. "What is it, my good man?" he asked.</p>
<hr/>
<p>The being spoke, and the preacher still standing, followed him through the husky labyrinth of his speech.</p>
<p>"Don't yer know me? I lives in 'Hell's Delight.' I knows you. You come down, you did, and wants ter take in ther sights. You asks Tony, the Dago, f er a guide and he sends yer to Creepy Jake. That's me. I takes yer through the dives, one and all. I knows yer a preacher from the way yer did. Yer buys the wine like a gent, though—like a real, high roller gent; anybody would 'a took yer fer a gent."</p>
<p>"Excuse me," said the preacher, "that wound on your forehead—the blood seems to be dripping on those engravings—allow me—"</p>
<p>"Keep your hankcher, reverend," said the being, as he raised a ragged coat tail and wiped the drops from his brow. "I won't spile yer pictures. I'll git off en yer carpet, and let some fresh air in in a minute. One time I could 'a told yer all about them pictures—dat's Una and de lion—dat one's the Venus of Milo—de other one's the disc thrower—you wouldn't believe, reverend, that I knowed de names, would you? One time I set in cheers like dat—I alius liked dat Spanish leather upholstering, but your wainscotin' ain't right. De carvin's allegorical and it don't suit de modern panels—'scuse me, reverend, dat ain't what I come to say. After you took in de Tenderloin, I got to tinkin' bout somethin' you said one night after I went wid you to de tough dance at Gilligan's. Dey was a cove dere dat twigged you as a parson and was about to biff you one on de ear, but he see'd my gun showin' down in my pocket, and den he see'd my eye, and changed his mind—but dat's all right. You says to yerself dat night, but I heard yer: 'De bruised reed he shall not quench, and de smokin' flax he will not put out,' or somethin' like dat, and I got ter studyin' over what a low down bum I've been, and I says, 'I'm goin' to de big bug church, and hear de bloke preach.'</p>
<hr/>
<p>"De boys an' de tinhorns gimme de laugh and called me 'Pious Jake,' but today I went to der big church where you preaches, reverend. I says to myself dat I showed you round de Tenderloin, and stood by you when de rounders guyed you, and never let de coves work de flimflam on yer, and when I heard tell of the big sermons yer was preachin' and de hot shot yer was shootin' into de tough gang, I was real proud, and I felt like I kinder had a share in de business f er havin' gone de rounds with yer. I says I'll hear dat cove preach, and maybe de bruised reed'll git a chance to straighten up—'scuse me, reverend, don't git skeared, I ain't goin' to fall and spile yer carpet. I'm a little groggy. That cut on my head is bled a heap, but I ain't drunk."</p>
<p>"Perhaps you would like—possibly, if you would sit— just for a moment—"</p>
<p>"Thanks, reverend, I won't sit down. I've jest about finished shootin' in my dye stuff. I goes to dat church and I goes in. I hears music playin', and I suppose them was angels singin' up in de peanut gallery, an' I smelt—such a smell ov violets and stuff like de hay when we used to cut it in de meaders when I wuz a kid. Dey wuz fine people in welvets and f olde-rols, and way over at de oder end was you, reverend, standin' in de gran' stan', lookin' carm and fur away like, jest as yer did at Gilligan's ball when de duck tried to guy yer, and I went in fur to hear yer preach."</p>
<hr/>
<p>A flattering sentence from the report of his sermon in the morning paper came to the preacher's mind:</p>
<p>"His wonderful, magnetic influence is as powerful to move the hearts of his roughest, most unlettered hearer, as it is to touch a responsive chord in the cultured brain of the man of refinement and taste."</p>
<p>"And my sermon," said the preacher, laying his delicate finger tips one against the other, and allowing the adulation even of this being to run with a slight exhilaration through his veins. "Did it awaken in you any remorse for the life of sin you have led, or bring any light of Divine pity and pardon to your soul, as He promises even unto the most degraded and wicked of creation?"</p>
<p>"Yer sermon, reverend?" asked the being, carrying a trembling hand to the disfiguring wounds upon his face. "Do you see them cuts and them bruises? Do you know where I got 'em? I never heard yer sermon. I got dese cuts on de rocks outside when de cop and yer usher fired me out de church. De bruised reed He will not quench, an' de smokin' flax He will not 'stinguish. Has you anything to say, reverend?</p>
<p>(Houston Dally Post, Sunday morning, December 1, 1895.)</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
