<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Apple</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-apple" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Apple</h2>
			<p>A youth held in his hand a round, red, luscious apple.</p>
			<p>“Eat,” said the Spirit, “it is the apple.of life.” “I will have none of it,” said the Youth, and threw it far from him. “I will have success. I will have fame, fortune, power and knowledge.” “Come, then,” said the Spirit.</p>
			<p>They went together up steep and rocky paths. The sun scorched, the rain fell upon them, the mountain mists clung about them, and the snow fell in beautiful and treacherous softness, obscuring the way as they climbed. Time swiftly passed and the golden locks of the Youth took on the whiteness of the snow. His form grew bent with the toil of climbing; his hand grew weak and his voice quivering and high.</p>
			<p>The Spirit had not changed and upon his face was the inscrutable smile of wisdom.</p>
			<p>They stood at last upon the topmost peak. The old man that was the Youth said to the Spirit: “Give me the apple of Success. I have come upon the heights where it grows and it is mine. Be quick, for there is a strange dimness in my sight.”</p>
			<p>The Spirit gave him an apple round and red and fair to behold.</p>
			<p>The man bit into it and found rottenness and bitter dust.</p>
			<p>“What is this?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“It was the apple of Life,” said the Spirit. “It is now the apple of Success.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
