<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Power of Reputation</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-power-of-reputation" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Power of Reputation</h2>
			<p>One night last week in San Antonio a tall, solemn-looking man, wearing a silk hat, walked into a hotel bar from the office, and stood by the stove where a group of men were sitting smoking and talking. A fat man, who noticed him go in, asked the hotel clerk who it was. The clerk told his name and the fat man followed the stranger into the barroom, casting at him glances of admiration and delight.</p>
			<p>“Pretty cold night, gentlemen, for a warm country,” said the man in the silk hat.</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha!” yelled the fat man, bursting into a loud laugh. “That’s pretty good.”</p>
			<p>The solemn man looked surprised and went on warming himself at the stove.</p>
			<p>Presently one of the men sitting by the stove said:</p>
			<p>“That old Turkey over in Europe doesn’t seem to be making much noise now.”</p>
			<p>“No,” said the solemn man, “it seems like the other nations are doing all the gobbling.”</p>
			<p>The fat man let out a yell and laid down and rolled over and over on the floor. “Gosh ding it,” he howled, “that’s the best thing I ever heard. Ah⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha! Come on, gentlemen, and have something on that.”</p>
			<p>The invitation seemed to all hands to be a sufficient apology for all his ill-timed merriment, and they ranged along the bar. While the drinks were being prepared, the fat man slipped along the line and whispered something in the ear of every one, except the man with the silk hat. When he got through a broad smile spread over the faces of the crowd.</p>
			<p>“Well, gentlemen, here’s fun!” said the solemn man as he raised his glass.</p>
			<p>The whole party, with one accord, started off into a perfect roar of laughter, spilling half their drinks on the bar and floor.</p>
			<p>“Did you ever hear such a flow of wit?” said one.</p>
			<p>“Chock full of fun, ain’t he?”</p>
			<p>“Same old fellow he used to be.”</p>
			<p>“Best thing that’s been got off here in a year.”</p>
			<p>“Gentlemen,” said the solemn man, “there seems to be a conspiracy among you to guy me. I like a joke myself, but I like to know what I’m being hurrahed about.”</p>
			<p>Three men lay down in the sawdust and screamed, and the rest fell in chairs and leaned against the bar in paroxysms of laughter. Then three or four of them almost fought for the honor of setting them up again. The solemn man was suspicious and watchful, but he drank every time anyone proposed to treat. Whenever he made a remark, the whole gang would yell with laughter until the tears ran from their eyes.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the solemn man, after about twenty rounds had been paid for by the others, “the best of friends must part. I’ve got to get to my downy couch.”</p>
			<p>“Good!” yelled the fat man. “Ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha! ‘Downy couch’ is good. Best thing I ever heard. You are as good, by Gad, as you ever were. Never heard such impromptu wit. Texas is proud of you, old boy.”</p>
			<p>“Good night, gentlemen,” said the solemn man. “I’ve got to get up early in the morning and go to work.”</p>
			<p>“Hear that!” shouted the fat man. “Says he’s got to work. Ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha⁠—ha!”</p>
			<p>The whole crowd gave a parting roar of laughter as the solemn man walked to the door. He stopped for a moment and said: “Had a very (hic) pleasant evening (hic) gents. Hope’ll shee you (hic) ’n mornin’. Here’sh my card. Goo’ night.”</p>
			<p>The fat man seized the card and shook the solemn man’s hand. When he had gone, he glanced at the card, and his face took on a serious frown.</p>
			<p>Gentlemen,” he said, “you all know who our friend is that we have been entertaining, don’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Of course; you said it was Alex Sweet, the ‘Texas Siftings’ man.”</p>
			<p>“So I understood,” said the fat man. “The hotel clerk said it was Alex Sweet.”</p>
			<p>He handed them the card and skipped out the side door. The card read:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p><b><abbr class="name">L. X.</abbr> Wheat</b></p>
				<p>Representing Kansas City</p>
				<p>Smith and Jones Mo.</p>
				<p>Wholesale Undertakers’ Supplies</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The crowd was out $32 on treats, and they armed themselves and are laying for the fat man. When a stranger attempts to be funny in San Antonio now, he has to produce proper credentials in writing before he can raise a smile.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
