<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Pint Flask</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-pint-flask" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pint Flask</h2>
			<p>A prominent Houston colonel, who is also a leading church member, started for church last Sunday morning with his family, as was his custom. He was serene and solid-looking, and his black frock coat and light gray trousers fitted him snugly and stylishly. They passed along Main Street on the way to church, and the colonel happened to think of a letter on his desk that he wanted, so he told his family to wait at the door a moment while he stopped in his office to get it. He went in and got the letter, and, to his surprise, there was a disreputable-looking pint whisky flask with about an ounce of whisky left in it standing on his desk. The colonel abominates whisky and never touches a drop of anything strong. He supposed that someone, knowing this, had passed his desk, and set the flask there by way of a mild joke.</p>
			<p>He looked about for a place to throw the bottle, but the back door was locked, and he tried unsuccessfully to raise the window that overlooked the alley. The colonel’s wife, wondering why he was so long in coming, opened the door and surprised him, so that scarcely thinking what he was doing he thrust the flask under his coat tail into his hip pocket.</p>
			<p>“Why don’t you come on?” asked his wife. “Didn’t you find the letter?”</p>
			<p>He couldn’t do anything but go with her. He should have produced the bottle right there, and explained the situation, but he neglected his opportunity. He went on down Main Street with his family, with the pint flask feeling as big as a keg in his pocket. He was afraid some of them would notice it bulging under his coat, so he lagged somewhat in the rear. When he entered his pew at church and sat down there was a sharp crack, and the odor of mean whisky began to work its way around the church. The colonel saw several people elevate their noses and look inquiringly around, and he turned as red as a beet. He heard a female voice in the pew behind him whisper loudly:</p>
			<p>“Old Colonel J is drunk again. They say he is hardly ever sober now, and some people say he beats his wife nearly every day.”</p>
			<p>The colonel recognized the voice of one of the most notorious female gossipers in Houston. He turned around and glared at her. She then whispered a little louder:</p>
			<p>“Look at him. He really looks dangerous. And to come to church that way, too!”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The colonel knew that the bottle had cracked and he was afraid to move, but a piece of it fell out on the floor. He usually knelt during prayer, but today he sat bolt upright on the seat. His wife noticed his unusual behavior and whispered:</p>
			<p>“James, you don’t know how you pain me. You don’t pray any more. I knew what the result would be when I let you go to hear Ingersoll lecture. You are an infidel. And⁠—what is that I smell? Oh, James, you have been drinking, and on Sunday, too!”</p>
			<p>The colonel’s wife put her handkerchief to her eyes, and he ground his teeth in rage.</p>
			<p>After the services were over, and they had reached home, his wife took her seat on the back porch and began to cap some strawberries for dinner. This prevented his going out in the back yard and throwing the bottle over the fence, as he had intended. His two little boys hung close around him, as they always did on Sunday, and he found it impossible to get rid of it. He took them out for a stroll in the front yard. Finally, he sent them both in the house on some pretext, and drawing out the bottle hurled it into the street. The crack in it had been only a slight one, and as it struck a soft heap of trash when it fell, it did not break.</p>
			<p>The colonel felt immediately relieved, but just as the little boys ran back he heard a voice in the street say:</p>
			<p>“See here, sir, law’s against throwing glass in the street. I saw you do it, but take it back, and it’ll be all right this time.”</p>
			<p>The colonel turned and saw a big policeman handing the terrible bottle towards him over the fence. He took it and thrust it back into his pocket with a low but expressive remark. His little boys ran up and shouted:</p>
			<p>“Oh, papa, what was that the policeman gave you? Let’s see it!”</p>
			<p>They clutched at his coat tails, and grabbed for his pockets, and the colonel backed against the fence.</p>
			<p>“Go away from here, you little devils,” he yelled. “Go in the house or I’ll thrash you both.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The colonel went into the house and put on his hat. He resolved to get rid of the bottle if he had to walk a mile to do it.</p>
			<p>“Where are you going?” asked his wife in astonishment. “Dinner is almost ready. Why don’t you pull off your coat and cool off, James, as you usually do?”</p>
			<p>She gazed at him with the deepest suspicion, and that irritated him.</p>
			<p>“Confound the dinner,” he said, angrily. “I’m hungry⁠—no, I mean I’m sick; I don’t want any dinner⁠—I’m going to take a walk.”</p>
			<p>“Papa, please show us what the policeman gave you,” said one of his little boys.</p>
			<p>“Policeman!” echoed the colonel’s wife. “Oh, James, to think that you would act this way! I know you haven’t been drinking, but what is the matter with you? Come in and lie down. Let me pull off your coat.</p>
			<p>She tried to pull off the colonel’s Prince Albert, as she generally did, but he got furiously angry and danced away from her.</p>
			<p>“Take your hands off me, woman,” he cried. “I’ve got a headache, and I’m going for a walk. I’ll throw the blamed thing away if I have to go to the North Pole to do it.”</p>
			<p>The colonel’s wife shook her head as he went out the gate.</p>
			<p>“He’s working too hard,” she said. “Maybe a walk will do him good.”</p>
			<p>The colonel went down several blocks watching for an opportunity to dispose of the flask. There were a good many people on the streets, and there seemed to be always somebody looking at him.</p>
			<p>Two or three of the colonel’s friends met him, and stared at him curiously. His face was much flushed, his hat was on the back of his head and there was a wild glare in his eyes. Some of them passed without speaking, and the colonel laughed bitterly. He was getting desperate. Whenever he would get to a vacant lot, he would stop and gaze searchingly in every direction to see if the coast was clear, so that he could pull out the flask and drop it. People began to watch him from windows, and two or three little boys began to follow him. The colonel turned around and spoke sharply to them, and they replied:</p>
			<p>“Look at the old guy with a jag on lookin* for a place to lie down. W’y don’t yer go to de calaboose and snooze it off, mister?”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The colonel finally dodged the boys, and his spirits rose as he saw before him a vacant square covered with weeds, in some places as high as his head.</p>
			<p>Here was a place where he could get rid of the bottle. The minister of his church lived on the opposite side of the vacant square, but the weeds were so high that the house was completely hidden.</p>
			<p>The colonel looked guiltily around and seeing no one, plunged into a path that led through the weeds. When he reached the center, where they were highest, he stopped and drew the whisky flask from his pocket. He looked at it a moment; smiled grimly, and said aloud:</p>
			<p>“Well, you’ve given me lots of trouble that nobody knows anything about but me.”</p>
			<p>He was about to drop the flask when he heard a noise, and looking up he saw his minister standing in the path before him, gazing at him with horrified eyes.</p>
			<p>“My dear Colonel J⁠⸺,” said the good man. “You distress me beyond measure. I never knew that you drank. I am indeed deeply grieved to see you here in this condition.”</p>
			<p>The colonel was infuriated beyond control. “Don’t give a d⁠⸺ if you are,” he shouted. “I’m drunk as a biled owl, and I don’t care who knows it. I’m always drunk. I’ve drunk 15,000 gallons of whisky in the last two weeks. I’m a bad man about this time every Sunday. Here goes the bottle once more for luck.”</p>
			<p>He hurled the flask at the minister and it struck him on the ear and broke into twenty pieces. The minister let out a yell and turned and ran back to his house.</p>
			<p>The colonel gathered a pile of stones and hid among the tall weeds, resolved to fight the whole town as long as his ammunition held out. His hard luck had made him desperate. An hour later three mounted policemen got into the weeds, and the colonel surrendered. He had cooled off by that time enough to explain matters, and as he was well known to be a perfectly sober and temperate citizen, he was allowed to go home.</p>
			<p>But you can’t get him to pick up a bottle now, empty or full.</p>
			<p>(Houston Daily Post, Sunday morning, May 17, 1896.)</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
