<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Telegram</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-telegram" epub:type="se:short-story z3998:drama">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Telegram</h2>
			<p>Scene: Telegraph office in Houston.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter handsome black velour cape, trimmed with jet and braid, with Tibetan fur collar, all enclosing lovely young lady.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Oh, I want to send a telegram at once, if you please. Give me about six blanks, please. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Writes about ten minutes.</i> How much will this amount to, please?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">counting words</i> Sixteen dollars and ninety-five cents, ma’am.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Goodness gracious! I’ve only thirty cents with me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Suspiciously.</i> How is it you charge so much, when the post-office only requires two cents?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td>We claim to deliver messages quicker than the post-office, ma’am. You can send ten words to Waco for twenty-five cents.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Give me another blank, please: I guess that will be enough. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">After five minutes’ hard work she produces the following: “Ring was awfully lovely. Come down as soon as you can. Mamie.”</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td>This contains eleven words. That will be thirty cents.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Oh, gracious! I wanted that nickel to buy gum with.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td>Let’s see. You might strike out, “awfully,” and that will make it all right.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Indeed I shan’t. You ought to see that ring. I’ll give you the thirty cents.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td>To whom is this to be sent?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>It seems to me you are rather inquisitive, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">wearily</i> I assure you there is no personal interest expressed in the question. We have to know the name and address in order to send the message.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Oh, yes. I didn’t think of that. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She writes the name and address, pays the thirty cents and departs. Twenty minutes later she returns, out of breath.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Oh, I forgot something. Have you sent it off yet?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td>Yes, ten minutes ago.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Oh, I’m so sorry. It isn’t the way I wanted it at all. Can’t you telegraph and have it changed for me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td>Is it anything important?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Yes: I wanted to underscore the words “awfully lovely.” Will you have that attended to at once?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clerk</td>
						<td>Certainly, and we have some real nice violet extract; would you like a few drops on your telegram?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Young lady</td>
						<td>Oh, yes: so kind of you. I expect to send all my telegrams through your office, you have been so accommodating. Good morning.</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
