<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Shock</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-shock" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Shock</h2>
			<p>A man with a very pale face, wearing a woolen comforter and holding a slender stick in his hand, staggered into a Houston drug store yesterday and leaned against the counter, holding the other hand tightly against his breast.</p>
			<p>The clerk got a graduating glass, and poured an ounce of spiritus frumenti into it quickly, and handed it to him. The man drank it at a gulp.</p>
			<p>“Feel better?” asked the clerk.</p>
			<p>“A little. Don’t know when I had such a shock. I can hardly stand. Just a little more, now—”</p>
			<p>The clerk gave him another ounce of whisky.</p>
			<p>“My pulse has started again, I believe,” said the man. “It was terrible, though!”</p>
			<p>“Fell off a wagon?” asked the clerk.</p>
			<p>“No, not exactly.”</p>
			<p>“Slip on a banana peel?”</p>
			<p>“I think not. I’m getting faint again, if you—”</p>
			<p>The obliging clerk administered a third dose of the stimulant.</p>
			<p>“Street car run over you?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“No,” said the pale man. “I’ll tell you how it was. See that red-faced man out there swearing and dancing on the corner?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“He did it. I don’t believe I can stand up much longer. I⁠—thanks.”</p>
			<p>The man tossed off the fourth reviver and began to look better.</p>
			<p>“Shall I call a doctor?” asked the clerk.</p>
			<p>“No, I guess not. Your kindness has revived me. I’ll tell you about it. I have one of those toy spiders attached to a string at the end of this stick, and I saw that red-faced man sitting on a doorstep with his back to me, and I let the spider down over his head in front of his nose. I didn’t know who he was, then.</p>
			<p>“He fell over backwards and cut his ear on the foot-scraper and broke a set of sixty-dollar false teeth. That man is my landlord and I owe him $37 back rent, and he holds a ten-dollar mortgage on my cow, and has already threatened to break my back. I slipped in here and he hasn’t seen me yet. The shock to my feelings when I saw who it was, was something awful. If you have a little more of that spirits now, I—”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
