<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Too Wise</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="too-wise" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Too Wise</h2>
			<p>Here is a man in Houston who keeps quite abreast of the times. He reads the papers, has traveled extensively and is an excellent judge of human nature. He has a natural gift for detecting humbugs and fakirs, and it would be a smooth artist indeed who could impose upon him in any way.</p>
			<p>Last night as he was going home, a shady looking man with his hat pulled over his eyes stepped out from a doorway and said:</p>
			<p>“Say, gent, here’s a fine diamond ring I found in de gutter. I don’t want to get into no trouble wid it. Gimme a dollar and take it.”</p>
			<p>The Houston man smiled as he looked at the flashy ring the man held toward him.</p>
			<p>“A very good game, my man,” he said, “but the police are hot after you fellows. You had better select your rhinestone customers with better judgment. Good night.”</p>
			<p>When the man got home he found his wife in tears.</p>
			<p>“Oh, John,” she said. “I went shopping this afternoon and lost my solitaire diamond ring. Oh, what shall I—”</p>
			<p>John turned without a word and rushed back down the street, but the shady-looking man was not to be found.</p>
			<p>His wife often wonders why he never scolded her for losing the ring.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
