<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Too Late</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="too-late" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Too Late</h2>
			<p>Young Lieutenant Baldwin burst excitedly into his general’s room and cried hoarsely: “For God’s sake, General! Up! Up! and come. Spotted Lightning has carried off your daughter, Inez!”</p>
			<p>General Splasher sprang to his feet in dismay. “What,” he cried, “not Spotted Lightning, the chief of the Kiomas, the most peaceful tribe in the reservation?”</p>
			<p>“The same.”</p>
			<p>“Good heavens! You know what this tribe is when aroused?”</p>
			<p>The lieutenant cast a swift look of intelligence at his commander.</p>
			<p>“They are the most revengeful, murderous, and vindictive Indians in the West when on the warpath, but for months they have been the most peaceable,” he answered.</p>
			<p>“Come,” said the general, “we have not a moment to lose. What has been done?”</p>
			<p>“There are fifty cavalrymen ready to start, with Bowie Knife Bill, the famous scout, to track them.”</p>
			<p>Ten minutes later the general and the lieutenant, with Bowie Knife Bill at their side, set out at a swinging gallop at the head of the cavalry column.</p>
			<p>Bowie Knife Bill, with the trained instincts of a border sleuth-hound, followed the trail of Spotted Lightning’s horse with unerring swiftness.</p>
			<p>“Pray God we may not be too late,” said the general as he spurred his panting steed⁠—“and Spotted Lightning, too, of all the chiefs! He has always seemed to be our friend.”</p>
			<p>“On, on,” cried Lieutenant Baldwin, “there may yet be time.”</p>
			<p>Mile after mile the pursuers covered, pausing not for food or water, until nearly sunset.</p>
			<p>Bowie Knife Bill pointed to a thin column of smoke in the distance and said:</p>
			<p>“Thar’s the varmints’ camp.”</p>
			<p>The hearts of all the men bounded with excitement as they neared the spot.</p>
			<p>“Are we in time?” was the silent question in the mind of each.</p>
			<p>They dashed into an open space of prairie and drew rein near Spotted Lightning’s tent. The flap was closed. The troopers swung themselves from their horses.</p>
			<p>“If it is as I fear,” muttered the general hoarsely to the lieutenant, “it means war with the Kioma nation. Oh, why did he not take some other instead of my daughter?”</p>
			<p>At that instance the door of the tent opened and Inez Splasher, the general’s daughter, a maiden of about thirty-seven summers, emerged, bearing in her hand the gory scalp of Spotted Lightning.</p>
			<p>“Too late!” cried the general as he fell senseless from his horse.</p>
			<p>“I knew it,” said Bowie Knife Bill, folding his arms with a silent smile, “but what surprises me is how he ever got this far alive.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
