<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Why He Hesitated</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="why-he-hesitated" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Why He Hesitated</h2>
			<p>A man with a worn, haggard countenance that showed traces of deep sorrow and suffering rushed excitedly up the stairs into the editorial rooms of the Post.</p>
			<p>The literary editor was alone in his corner and the man threw himself into a chair near by and said:</p>
			<p>“Excuse me, sir, for inflicting my troubles upon you, but I must unbosom myself to someone. I am the unhappiest of men. Two months ago, in a quiet little town in Eastern Texas, there was a family dwelling in the midst of peace and contentment. Hezekiah Skinner was the head of that family, and he almost idolized his wife, who appeared to completely return his affection. Alas, sir, she was deceiving him. Her protestations of love were but honeyed lies, intended to beguile and blind him. She had become infatuated with William Wagstaff, a neighbor, who had insidiously planned to capture her affections. She listened to Wagstaff’s pleadings and fled with him, leaving her husband with a wrecked home and a broken heart. Can you not feel for me, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I do, indeed,” said the literary editor. “I can conceive the agony, the sorrow, the deep suffering that you must have felt.”</p>
			<p>“For two months,” continued the man, “the home of Hezekiah Skinner has been desolate, and this woman and Wagstaff have been flying from his wrath.”</p>
			<p>“What do you intend to do?” asked the literary editor.</p>
			<p>“I scarcely know. I do not care for the woman any longer, but I cannot escape the tortures my mind is undergoing day after day.”</p>
			<p>At this point a shrill woman’s voice was heard in the outer office, making some inquiry of the office boy.</p>
			<p>“Great heavens, her voice!” said the man, rising to his feet greatly agitated. “I must get out of here. Quick! Is there no way for me to escape? A window⁠—a side door⁠—anywhere before she finds me.”</p>
			<p>The literary editor rose with indignation in his face.</p>
			<p>“For shame, sir,” he said, “do not act so unworthy a part. Confront your faithless wife, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Skinner, and denounce her for wrecking your life and home. Why do you hesitate to stand up for your honor and your rights?”</p>
			<p>“You do not understand,” said the man, his face white with fear and apprehension, as he climbed out the window upon a shed. “I am William Wagstaff.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
