<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Willing to Compromise</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="willing-to-compromise" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Willing to Compromise</h2>
			<p>As he walked up to the bar he pulled up his collar with both hands and straightened the old red tie that was trying to creep around under one ear.</p>
			<p>The bartender glanced at him and then went on chipping lemon peel into a saucer.</p>
			<p>“Say,” said the man with the red tie, “it makes me right sick to think about it.”</p>
			<p>“What?” said the bartender, “water?”</p>
			<p>“No sir; the apathy displayed by the people of the state in regard to presenting the battleship Texas with a suitable present. It is a disgrace to our patriotism. I was talking to <abbr class="name">W. G.</abbr> Cleveland this morning and we both agreed that something must be done at once. Would you give ten dollars toward a silver service to be presented to the ship?”</p>
			<p>The bartender reached behind him and took up a glass that was sitting on the shelf.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that I would give you ten dollars,” he said, “but here’s some whisky that I put some turpentine in by mistake this morning and forgot to throw it out. Will that do as well?”</p>
			<p>“It will,” said the man with the red tie, reaching for the glass, “and I am also soliciting aid for the Cuban patriots. If you want to assist the cause of liberty and can’t spare the cash, if you could rustle up a glass of beer with a fly in it, I would—”</p>
			<p>“Trot out, now,” said the bartender. “There’s a church member looking in the back door, and he won’t come in till everybody’s out.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
